The Back Page: A Video Games Podcast
The Great Book of Grudges
Episode 158: The Best Games of 2023
Our biggest episode of the year is here! Two top 10 lists of the best games of the year. More than three hours of pod, slightly later than planned (sorry about that).

Thanks so much for your patience while we took a much-needed break – but now we're back! Expect a full plan of what we're making in January in the next few days, including the return of the XL and XXL episodes.

This week's music is from the Cobalt Core soundtrack by Aaron Cherof.
Matthew
10. Let's! Revolution!
9. Xenoblade Chronicles 3: Future Redeemed
8. Star Wars Jedi: Survivor
7. Pikmin 4
6. Paranormasight: The Seven Mysteries of Honjo
5. Cobalt Core
4. Resident Evil 4 (2023 video game)
3. Baldur's Gate 3
2. Shadow Gambit: The Cursed Crew
1. The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom
Honourable Mentions
Videoverse
Chants of Sennaar
Fire Emblem Engage
Samuel
10. Dredge
9. Marvel's Spider-Man 2
8. Pikmin 4
7. MyHouse.wad
6. Cobalt Core
5. Super Mario Bros. Wonder
4. Final Fantasy XVI
3. Pizza Tower
2. Resident Evil 4 (2023)
1. Star Wars Jedi: Survivor
Honourable Mentions
Cassette Beasts
Starfield
Sea of Stars
Fire Emblem Engage
Alan Wake 2
Amnesia: The Bunker
Episode 157: The Back Page Holiday Special 2023
After a short break, we're back with a fun (allegedly) holiday special to see out the year – featuring special guests, our favourite Christmas-themed games and the Back Page alternative GOTY awards.

This week's music is from Bayonetta Origins, Final Fantasy 16, Fable 2 and Bully.
Episode 156: Two Giant Men Play Final Fantasy 7 (Disc 1)
It's Matthew's first time through the original Final Fantasy 7. Ahead of the release of Rebirth in 2024, he explains what the hell is going on in disc one of this 26 year-old RPG, right up to the death of Aerith (and to a lesser extent, Cait Sith).

This is our last new podcast for three weeks! Thanks for listening all year – we'll be back soon. Free feed listeners can look forward to a couple of Patreon samplers.

This week's music is from the Final Fantasy 7 soundtrack by Nobuo Uematsu.
XXL Episode 20: David Fincher Movies Ranked
We ranked the 12 movies directed by David Fincher to mark the recent release of The Killer. Plus: hear about Matthew's favourite ever Charles Martinet performance in 1997's The Game. This is our last XXL episode of the year – but after pausing billing in December, we'll return in early January for our best TV shows and movies of 2023.

This week's music is from the Gone Girl soundtrack by Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross. Thanks to Michael 'BanyaBat' Butter for the edits!
//TBD
Episode 155: The Licensed Games Draft
Samuel and Matthew compete to pick the best selection of 10 licensed games, and discuss the wildly inconsistent history of games based on movies, TV shows, books and more. Vote for the winner in our pinned tweet @BackPagePod, and we'll discuss the results in a future episode.

This week's music is from the Blade Runner game soundtrack by Vangelis and Frank Klepacki.

1. Movie tie-in
2. TV show tie-in
3. 90+ on Metacritic
4. Guilty pleasure
5. Side-scroller/2D game
6. '90s favourite
7. Bad licence, good game
8. Cursed
9. The 'Coronation Street: The Mystery of the Missing Hotpot
Recipe wild card category (either the licence is weird or they adapted it in a weird genre)
10. Free pick
Samuel's picks
GoldenEye
The Simpsons Hit and Run
Marvel's Spider-Man 2
The Matrix: Path of Neo
Astro Boy Omega Factor
TIE Fighter
The Darkness 2
The Simpsons Wrestling
Parasite Eve
Alien Isolation
Matthew's picks
The Warriors
TNT: Shredders' Revenge
Batman: Arkham City
X-Men Origins: Wolverine
Aladdin (Mega Drive)
Blade Runner
Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay
Fight Club
Pinball FX: Empire Strikes Back
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
Episode 154: What We've Been Playing (Alan Wake 2, Super Mario Wonder, PS Portal, Oculus Quest 3)
The latest on what we've been playing, featuring Alan Wake 2, Chants of Senaar, Super Mario Wonder, The Talos Principle 2, the PlayStation Portal and the Oculus Quest 3. Plus: the last mailbag of the year! Who knows how this one ended up being so bloody long.

This week's music is from the Chants of Senaar soundtrack by Thomas Brunet.
XL Episode 20: Best and Worst Console Launches
Judge Castle rules on the best and worst console launches, starting with the PSone and ending with the PS5. That's 20 in total!

Thanks to Michael 'BanyaBat' Butter for the edits. This week's music is from the Battle Arena Toshinden soundtrack by Yasuhiro Nakano.
Episode 153: From Jak & Daxter to Eurogamer (with Ellie Gibson)
This week's guest is comedian, writer and streaming superstar Ellie Gibson, who talks us through her career at Eurogamer during the heyday of the PS3 and 360 era of games media.

This week's music is from the Sky Odyssey soundtrack by Kow Otani.
Episode 152: Three Giant Men Play Spider-Man 2 (with Dave Scarborough)
A deep dive on the year's biggest PlayStation game with Dave Scarborough, sometime features editor of gamesTM.

This week's music is by John Paesano from the Marvel's Spider-Man 2 soundtrack.
XXL Episode 19: Top 10 Martin Scorsese Movies
Two Giant Men turn Two Giant Film Bros in this list of Marty's top 10 movies. Apologies in advance.
//TBD
Episode 151: Alan Wake 2 and the Games of Remedy (with Simon Cardy)
IGN's Simon Cardy joins us to celebrate the history of Remedy's games, including Max Payne, Alan Wake and even Quantum Break, as Alan Wake 2 finally becomes a reality. There's also a lot of fun chatter about Simon's work on IGN that you'll hopefully enjoy!
Episode 150: The Art of PlayStation List Making (with Rob Pearson)
Rob Pearson of PlayStation Access is our guest this week. Hear about Rob's unusual journey to YouTube fame via print media, and how Charlie Brooker and Jon Blyth inspired his hugely popular top 7 features.

This week's music is from the Final Fantasy IX soundtrack by Nobuo Uematsu.
Episode 149: The Best Games of 2001
From GTA 3 to Silent Hill 2, 2001 was one of the best years in the history of games. In this episode, we each construct top 10s while sharing many pointless details of our mixed fortunes as teenagers.

This week's music is from the Silent Hill 2 soundtrack by Akira Yamaoka.
//TBD
XL Episode 19: The Best Resident Evil Moments
Woah, it's been one whole week since we discussed Resident Evil on this podcast! Time to do a rundown of the best moments from the entire series, including the likes of 0, Revelations 2 and a tiny taste of Code Veronica. Enjoy, and thanks for the support!
Episode 148: What We've Been Playing (Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty, Assassin's Creed Mirage, Resi 4: Separate Ways, Cocoon)
We've firmly entered silly season, and Matthew has finished Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty. Does it change his take on the CD Projekt RED FPS/RPG? Find out in this episode, along with his early thoughts on Assassin's Creed Mirage, Samuel's thoughts on Resi 4's Separate Ways DLC, and both our thoughts on indie sensation Cocoon.

This week's music is from the Assassin's Creed Mirage soundtrack by Brendan Angelides.
Episode 147: Things You Only Realise When You Make Games
People Can Fly's Jamie Smith tells us about his career and things you only realise about games when you actually make them for a living. Then, in the last section, Jamie poses a series of impossible game design questions to both of us – see how we fare as backseat game designers!

This week's music is from the Call of Duty: Vanguard soundtrack by Bear McCreary.
XXL Episode 18: Matthew Is Back On His Asian Crime Fiction Bullshit
Matthew delves back into the subject he's most passionate about: Asian crime fiction. Except this time he expands the remit to thrillers, and even sci-fi!

Thanks so much for your support in bringing this episode to life! Here are the recommendations Matthew reads out in the final section of this episode:

If you like Park Chan Wook you might like…
The works of Ryu Murakami

If you like Stephen King at his most sprawling you'll like…
Naoki Urasawa

If you like Morse/Endeavour you might like…
The Inspector Chen novels

If you like Bong Joon-Ho films (specifically The Mother) you might like…
The Old Woman with the Knife by Gu Byeong-mo

If you like The Departed you might like…
The Borrowed from Chan Ho-Kei

If you like Hitman you might like…
The Plotters - Un-Su Kim

If you like Money Heist and gloriously silly thrillers you might like
Death Notice

If you like science fiction you will like…
Three Body Problem - Tsu-shin Loo
Episode 146: Two Giant Men Play Starfield
We've each played 25 hours of Starfield – here's what we thought.

This week's music is from the Starfield soundtrack by Inon Zur.
Episode 145: Dear God, More Games Court
Happy, you sickos? It's the latest entry in our bizarre Games Court format. 20 listeners submit their pre-owned game purchases (and lengthy life stories) to Judge Castle. Those found guilty will die...by Pikmin.

This week's music is by listener Adam Saucier.
XL Episode 18: Two Giant Men Solve an Escape Room – and the Best Gaming Prisons
In this weird episode, Matthew and Samuel relay their experience trying to solve an escape room in Bath. After that, we weld a list of the top 10 gaming prisons on to the episode – despite it being slightly out of place.

This week's music is from the Fable 2 soundtrack by Russell Shaw. Thanks to Liam Richardson for his final set of edits on a Back Page XL Tier episode, we'd have fallen over without him!

Spire Fable 2
Butcher Bay Riddick
Dungeons of the Valettes Witcher 2
Bolingbroke Penitentiary GTA Online
D District Prison FF8
Via Purifico FF10
Every Prison in Metal Gear
Penley Teahouse Deus Ex Mankind Divided
Arkham Asylum Batman AA
Prison Island RE Code Veronica
Hotline Miami
Fort Joy Divinity OS2
The Labyrinth God OW3
Dungeon Baldur’s Gate 2
Prison Oblivion
Prison Uncharted 4
Nova Prospekt HL2
Episode 144: The Nintendo DS Draft
Matthew and Samuel compete to pick the 15 best Nintendo DS games – after an extremely long preamble.

1. Game with 'Dr' or 'Professor' in the title
2. Entry in the Ubisoft Imagine series
3. Disney Channel or Nickelodeon tie-in
4. Cursed minigame compilation
5. Has Noel Edmonds, Jasper Carrott or Chris Tarrant on the cover
6. 'The budget of the DS version was definitely under £100,000' award
7. Confusingly named Kingdom Hearts spin-off
8. Like Ouendan but cursed
9. THQ game
10. Repackaged version of Pictochat they charged 25 quid for
11. Pokémon game that isn't an RPG
12. The 'dubious game your dad got with his Argos DS bundle' award
13. Arthritis-inducing touchscreen controls
14. Darts game with a middle-aged bloke from the pub on the cover
15. Has a title in the vein of 'Uncle Winklebottom's 33 Moist Parlour Games'


M Port Chrono Trigger
S RPG TWEWY
S Touch controls GTA Chinatown Wars
M Touch Generations Hotel Dusk
S Visual Novel Phoenix Wright
M Free Pick Ghost Trick
S Adventure Zelda Spirit Tracks
M Side Scroller Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow
S tactics strategy might and magic clash of heroes
M puzzle prof Layton lost future
S ? Ouendan
M RPG Mario and Luigi Bowser Inside Story
S Touch Generations rhythm heaven
M Platformer New SMB
S Free Pick Mario Kart DS
M adventure Zelda phantom hourglass
S Free pick 2 Dragon quest 9
M touch controls Trauma Centre
S port Tetris DS
M visual novel. 9 hours etc
S platformer Castlevania. Ecclesia
M wild card infinite space
S puzzle Layton curious village
M tactics fire emblem shadow dragon
S wild card meteos
M Pokémon heart gold
S Pokémon soul silver
M rhythms jam with the band
S shooter alien infestation
M free pick picross DS

1. Platformer
Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia
New Super Mario Bros
2. Adventure
Zelda: Spirit Tracks
Zelda: The Phantom Hourglass
3. RPG
The World Ends With You
Mario and Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story
4. Puzzle
Prof. Layton/Curious Village
Prof. Layton/Lost Future
5. Visual novel
Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney
999: Nine Hours, Nine Persons, Nine Doors
6. Shooter/sidescrolling Aliens Infestation
Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow
7. Pokémon game
Pokémon Soul Silver
Pokémon HeartGold
8. Rhythm action
Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan
Jam With The Band
9. Tactics or strategy
Might and Magic Clash of Heroes Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon
10. Touchscreen controls GTA Chinatown Wars
Trauma Centre
11. Port
Tetris DS
Chrono Trigger
12. Touch! Generations Rhythm Heaven
Hotel Dusk
13. Free pick 1
Mario Kart DS
Ghost Trick
14. Free pick 2
Dragon Quest 9
Picross DS
15. Wild card
Meteos
Infinite Space
Episode 143: What We've Been Playing (Sea of Stars, Armored Core 6, My House, Dredge)
Matthew is ill! Forgive us while we delay the DS draft a week and take it easy with a 'what we've been playing' pod. Matthew has played 10 hours of Sea of Stars, so we discuss that, the Doom mod My House, Armored Core 6, Paranormasight and Dredge.

This week's music is from the Doom 2 soundtrack by Robert Prince.
XXL Episode 17: The 'Matthew Castle Productions and Big Sammy Holdings Launch Rival Streaming Services' Draft
Our first ever draft episode behind the paywall is a truly chaotic affair – see what you make of this 2.5-hour epic, then vote for the winner in the pinned tweet @BackPagePod on Twitter.

TV categories
1. A sitcom
2. A drama
3. A sci-fi or fantasy show
4. An animated show
5. A show that's on right now (meaning you get future seasons too)
6. A show you don't like - because streamers have those too
7. A documentary or reality TV show
8. A show with 100 episodes or more
9. A cancelled TV show
10. A true curio
Film categories:
11. An entire film franchise
12. One director's entire body of work
13. A horror movie
14. A comedy
15. An action movie
16. A mystery film or thriller
17. An animated movie
18. A non-English language film
19. A movie released this year
20. Some smut
Bonus categories:
What's your streaming service called, Matthew?
What other bonus do people get with their membership?
You have to invent one TV show from scratch for launch. What is it?

TV
Samuel
Sitcom
Seinfeld
Drama
Sopranos
Sci-fi or fantasy show
Lost
Animated show
King of the Hill
A show on right now
Slow Horses
A show you don't like
Schitt's creek
Documentary or reality TV 30 for 30
100+ episodes
Buffy
Cancelled show
American Vandal
A true curio
Ricky Gervais Meets
Film
A franchise
A director
Horror
Comedy
Action
Mystery or thriller
Animated
Non-English language
2023 release
Some smut
Samuel
James Bond
Steven Spielberg
The Shining
21 Jump Street
Dredd
Heat
Akira
In the Mood for Love
Oppenheimer
Basic Instinct
Matthew
US Office
Mad Men
Dark
The Simpsons
White Lotus
Friends
How To With John Wilson
Cheers
The OA
Documental
Matthew
Mission Impossible
Quentin Tarantino
Barbarian
Planes Trains and Automobiles
The Matrix
The Last of Sheila
Summer Wars
I Wish
Barbie
The Handmaiden
Episode 142: The Dreaded Mailbag
We answer a lot of listener questions in this week's episode. It's fun for the first hour, it sags in the second, but gets it back just at the end. A 6/10 episode. Thank you for your polite tolerance!
Episode 141: The Best Games of 2016
One of our oldest and most popular episode formats returns as we count down the best games of 2016, a year that brought good news for everyone! Except Microsoft. And Nintendo. Everything from Uncharted 4 to Inside gets discussed in this bumper episode – alongside our (fairly dour) memories of the time working on magazines. Plus, hear all about Matthew's shattered knee at Gamescom yet again.

Note that there's a factual error in this episode: Samuel says they should make Super Puzzle Fighter II Turbo perpetually available on modern formats including Steam, which it is. Last year's Capcom Fighting Collection features it, with online play!

This week's music is from the Hitman soundtrack by Niels Bye Nielsen and the Phoenix Wright: Spirit of Justice soundtrack by Noriyuki Iwadare, Toshihiko Horiyama and Masami Onodera.
Matthew
10. Zero Time Dilemma
9. Kirby Planet Robobot
8. FF15
7. The Witness
6. Pheonix Ace Attorney Spirit of Justice
5. Uncharted 4
4. Shadow Tactics Blades of the Shogun
3. Inside
2. Dishonored 2
1. Hitman (2016)

Pony Island, Unravel, Plants vs Zombies Garden Warfare 2, Battlefield One, Forza Horizon 3, Rez Infinite PSVR Zone X
Samuel
10. Superhot
9. The Last Guardian
8. Titanfall 2
7. FF15
6. Doom (2016)
5. Inside
4. Deus Ex Mankind Divided
3. Hitman (2016)
2. Uncharted 4
1. Dishonored 2

Firewatch, The Division, XCOM 2, Abzu,Hyper Lifht Drifter, Oxenfree, Mirrors Edge Catalyst, Watchdogs 2
XL Episode 17: The Best Video Game Levels Vol. 2:
Level with a giant set piece that you love
Cosmonaut training from gears 5
Normandy d day in moh aa

Level from old game
Clowny Island from Ricket Robot on Wheels
Mission 15 from Jedi Knight

Platforming level with imagination
Mount mustdash on Mario 3D world
Fords follicles in psychonauts 2

Racing level
Mount Wario Mk8
Airship Foretress MK DS/ Mk8

Pat the Ox
Miles Morales Xmas Market
Jim Gordon Joker Flashback in Arkham knight
Episode 140: Old RPGs and Baldur's Gate 3 (with Jeremy Peel)
With Baldur's Gate 3 taking over the world, genre expert Jeremy Peel returns to discuss how RPGs have evolved since the days of the Infinity Engine games.

This week's music is from the Dragon Age: Origins soundtrack by Inon Zur.
Episode 139: What We've Been Playing (Exoprimal, Pikmin 4, The Expanse: A Telltale Series)
A simple but cheerful 'what we've been playing' joint this week, featuring Exoprimal, Telltale's comeback game The Expanse, 1998's Parasite Eve, Pikmin 4 and Viewfinder.

This week's music is from the Pikmin 4 soundtrack by Kenta Nagata, Asuka Hayazaki and Soshi Abe.
XXL Episode 16: Mission: Impossible Pod Rankening
After about 8 episodes of promotion, our ranking of the Mission: Impossible movies is finally here! Thanks to Liam Richardson of RockPaperShotgun for the edits, as ever.

7. Mi2
6. Rogue Nation
5. 3
4. Fallout
3. Ghost Protocol
2. Mission Impossible
1. Dead Reckoning 1

This week's music is from the Mission: Impossible series soundtracks by Lalo Schifrin, Danny Elfman, Hans Zimmer, Michael Giacchino, Joe Kraemer, Lorne Balfe and Limp Bizkit.
Episode 138: Edge in the '00s
Former Edge editor Margaret Robertson joins us to discuss working on the magazine from 2003-2007 and her career in game development. It's a good one, but then we always say that.

Check out Margaret's game in Fortnite, Fast Feud, at 2057-0506-7371, and follow her @marga_retro on Twitter. This week's music is from the WipEout soundtrack by Tim Wright
Episode 137: The PS3 Draft
Matthew and Samuel compete to pick the best 10 games (and one HD collection) that represent the PS3's somewhat inconsistent library. Vote for the winner in our pinned tweet @BackPagePod.

This week's music is from the Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots soundtrack by Harry Gregson-Williams.
PS3 draft categories
1. Unfortunate Sixaxis controls
2. Resistance or Killzone
3. One of those 6/10s
4. Defunct online vehicular combat game
5. Runs better on 360
6. Cursed peripheral required
7. PSN game that only Samuel remembers
8. Has a superior PS4 version now
9. Platformer that Matthew hates
10. Tokyo Jungle or Metal Gear Solid 4
PS3 draft categories (fixed)
1. Exclusive
2. Racing
3. Naughty Dog
4. Shooter or platformer
5. PSN game
6. Ill-advised Sixaxis inclusion
7. RPG or action adventure
8. Wild card
9. Free pick
10. Has a superior PS4 version now
11. Bonus category: HD Collection

M exclusive MGS4
S exclusive uncharted 2
S naughty dog last of us
M superior ps4 god of war 3
S superior ps4 uncharted 3
M rpg action adventure demon souls
S psn journey
M hd collection ico sotc
S motorstorm pacific rift
M shooter or platformer resistance 3
S rpg action adventure ni no kuni
M Ill advised sixaxis ratchet and clank tools of destruction
S wildcard 3D dot game heroes
M wildcard puppeteer
S shooter or platformer little big planet 2
M ? Heavy Rain
S ? Persona 5
M jam and Daxtar
S wipeout hd
M PSN Rain
S hd MGS hd
M motorstorm apocalypse

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
Matthew's picks
Exclusive
Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots
Racing
MotorStorm: Apocalypse
Naughty Dog
Jak & Dater Collection
Shooter or platformer Resistance 3
PSN game
Rain
Sixaxis inclusion
Ratchet & Clank: Tools of Destruction
RPG action adventure Demon's Souls
Wild card
Puppeteer
Free pick
Heavy Rain
Superior PS4 version God of War 3
Bonus: HD Collection ICO/Shadow of the Colossus HD
Samuel's picks
Uncharted 2: Among Thieves
MotorStorm: Pacific Rift
The Last of Us
LittleBigPlanet 2
Journey
WipeOut HD
Ni No Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch
3D Dot Game Heroes
Persona 5
Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception
Metal Gear Solid HD Collection
​​Episode 136: What We've Been Playing (Final Fantasy 16, Trepang2, Baldur's Gate 3)
Kick back, take a seat! Pour yourself a tall glass of water. It's a simple update on what we've been playing lately, featuring Final Fantasy 16, Trepang 2, Master Detective Archives: Rain Code and Baldur's Gate 3. Plus: answers to a dozen or so listener questions.

This week's music is from the Final Fantasy 16 soundtrack by Masayoshi Soken.
XL Episode 16: 20 Games That Deserve a Remake
In this month's Patreon-exclusive XL episode, we first discuss the trend of remakes in games and where it began – and whether it's a good thing for the creative health of games or not. Then, in the second half, we each share our picks of games we think deserve a remake. There are some solid suggestions in there, among some total nonsense.
Thanks to Liam Richardson for editing this one, and thanks to you for your support!

NOLF 1 and 2
Dragon Age origins
Hitman blood money
LOTR two towers rotk
Infinite space
Ico
Messiah - No
Little Kkngs Story
Simpsons hit and run
Baldur’s gate 1 and 2
The Warriors
Xenogears
Manhunt
Super Mario 64
Incredible Hulk ultimate destruction
Tomb Raider 2
Metroid Fusion and Zero Mission
Vampire the Masquerade Bloodlines
FF8
Zelda Spirit Tracks
Deus Ex
Time Crisis VR and House of the Dead VR
Episode 135: Nintendo in the '00s (with Wes Fenlon)
Our guest this week is PC Gamer Senior Editor Wes Fenlon, who talks to us about his career in games media, his newsletter Read Only Memo, and Nintendo during the GameCube/GBA episode. You'll also hear about some of the differences between UK and US games media, and a quick therapy session for Samuel's benefit. A lot of ground is covered in this one – enjoy!
This week's music is from Cubivore, probably? Matthew edited this one and didn't say where the music came from – and at the time of writing he's on a train to Belgium, so who really knows.

Mother 3
Astroboy Omega Factor
Kingdom Hearts Chain of Memories
Klonoa GBA games
Kuru Kuru Kururin
DK Jungle Beat
Bomberman Generation
Baiten Kaitos Origins
Cubivore
Episode 134: Two Giant Men Replay Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater
Two large gentlemen replay MGS3 and discuss where the upcoming remake could make improvements. Then, in section 2, we rank the bosses of this all-time classic. Spoilers follow for a game that's nearly 20 years old.
This week's music is from the Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater soundtrack by Harry Gregson-Williams and Hibino Norihiko.

The Fear
Ocelot
The Pain
The Fury
The Sorrow
Volgin / Shagohod
The Boss
The End

XXL Episode 15: The Indiana Jones Rankings
Matthew and Samuel foolishly try to create power rankings for the first four Indiana Jones movies, The Fate of Atlantis, several 6/10 games, a TV show Matthew collected on VHS...it's a mess. But quite a funny and reverent episode.
Thanks for your support in bringing this episode to life! And cheers to Liam Richardson for the edits. See you next month for the Mission: Impossible rankings.
D Tier
Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull
Indiana Jones and the Staff of Kings
C Tier
Indiana Jones and the Emperor's Tomb
The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles
B Tier
Indiana Jones and the Infernal Machine
Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom
Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures
Lego Indiana Jones 2: The Adventure Continues
A Tier
Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis
S Tier
Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade
Raiders of the Lost Ark
Episode 133: Top 5 Final Fantasy Games
Samuel and Matthew revisit the classic Square Enix/Squaresoft RPG series this week. Well, the bits they know about, anyway. Plus, hear what Matthew thinks of Final Fantasy XVI, which just launched on PS5.
This week's music is from the Final Fantasy XV soundtrack by Yoko Shimomura, the Final Fantasy XVI soundtrack by Masayoshi Soken, the Final Fantasy XIII soundtrack by Masashi Hamauzu and the Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: The Crystal Bearers soundtrack by Hidenori Iwasaki, Ryo Yamazaki and Kumi Tanioka.
Matthew’s favourite
Final Fantasy VII ?
Final Fantasy XII ✔️
Samuel’s Caveats: How well does he know the games?
1 Moderately Well
2 Moderately Well
3 Very Well
4 Very Well
5 Not At All
6 Really Well
7 Everything
8 Everything
9 The First Third
10 Loves
11 Don’t Know
12 Very Well
13 Very Well
14 Don’t Know
15 Very Well
Samuel’s Rankings
5. Final Fantasy VI
4. Final Fantasy XII
3. Final Fantasy VIII
2. Final Fantasy VII
1. Final Fantasy X
Episode 132: Our 10 Most Anticipated Games From Not-E3 2023
From Doordash ads to a game that looks 90% like BioShock Infinite, these were our highlights from the past week of game reveals. Forgive some tired podcasting as we melt slightly in British weather.
This week's music is from the Persona 3 soundtrack by Shoji Meguro.
Matthew
10. Islands of Insight
9. Like a Dragon Gaiden and Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth
8. Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown
7. Dragon's Dogma II
6. Cocoon
5. Summerhlll
4. Baldur's Gate III
3. Clockwork Revolution
2. Fable
1. Metaphor: ReFantazio
Honourable Mention
Jusant
Samuel
10. Sonic Superstars
9. Sword of the Sea
8. Prince of Persia the lost crown
7. Star Wars Outlaws
6. Shadow Gambit the Cursed Crew
5. Hellskate
4. Space Marine 2
3. Clockwork Revolution
2. Metaphor re fantasio
1. Final Fantasy 7 rebirth

Honourable mentions.
Alan Wake 2, still wakes the deep. Eterknights
XL Episode 15: The Best Video Game Boss Battles Volume 2: The Surprise Second Health Bar
We dive deeper into the subject of our very first Patreon episode this month, highlighting more of our favourite bosses. Plus: look forward to the inaugural Boss Awards, where we decide who gets to win titles like 'most ideologically correct boss' and 'would make a good/bad boss in real life'.
Thanks to Liam Richardson for the edits, as ever, and thanks for your support!

Boss
Samuel
Sifu Karoke
Destiny 2 Insurrection Prime Scourge of the Past
God of War 3 Kronos
Pokémon Yellow Gary Blue
Jedi Survivor Dagon
FF7 Remake Hell House

Matthew
Blasphemous Marchiades the Exhumed Archbishop
Yakuza Like a Dragon Ishin Ocado Iza
Devil May Cry 5 Artemis
Bayonetta 3 French Rosa
No More Heroes 3 Gold Joe
Kid Icarus Uprising Hades

Boss Awards
Most Punchable
GOW Ragnarok Heimdall
FF10 Seymour Guado

Worst Quips
MGS3 The Pain
Kingdom Hearts 2 Demmix

Cooler Than Main Character
FF8 Sifa
Wesker RE5
Cyborg Ninja MGS
Melenia Elden Ring
Phoenix Wright Godoy and Edgeworth

Boss who has sub boss energy and should know their place
Victor Szass in Arkham
Guy on horse who shouts his own name In Sekiro
Troy Baker in Death Stranding

Boss who should have been amazing but was underwhelming
Miragiya on Death Mountain in TOTK
Thanos in Guardian of the Galaxy

Would make an actual good boss in real life
Odin from Ragnarok
Doc Ock from Spider-Man

Terrible Boss
Hitler from Wolfenstein 3D
Giant Ass with a tongue climbing a tower in Catherine
Megaleg in Marioy
Anyone from Shadow of the Colossus
Rufus Shinra

Location that would make a good arena
Waterloo Bridge
Piccadilly Circus
Leicester Square
Spa in Bath
Square in front of Bath Abbey
London 2012 opening ceremony
Patch of earth by the Royal Crescent
Millennium Dome

Real life person who’d make a good MGS boss
Progozin of Wagner Group
JC of JCs Kitchen

Boss you’d chick your console rather than play again
Senator Armstrong
Majima and Tiger

Boss with daftest name
Pete from Kingdom Hearts
Balding Screen Monkeys from Sekiro
Garland in FF
Master Hand

Boss with coolest name
Abriatas daughter of the cosmos
Lord of Blasphemy from Elden Ring
Hulk Davidson from Viewtiful Joe
Big Pig called Megaton the Helux Beast in Xenoblade Chroncle X
Revolver Ocelot in MGS

Boss who was ideologically correct
King Logan in Fable 3
A guy who hates Crash Bandicoot

Episode 131: The Edge 10 Episode (with Chris Schilling)
Edge Deputy Editor Chris Schilling joins us for this week's episode. Hear about his career in games media, as well as the creation of the widely respected magazine. And yes: we talk about what it means when Edge awards a game a 10. Enjoy.
This week's music is from the Advance Wars soundtrack by Taishi Senda.
Episode 130: The Xbox 360 Draft
Is the Xbox 360 the greatest console ever made? That's one of the questions we tackle on this episode before competing to pick the 10 best games on this celebrated platform across a variety of categories. Vote for the winner of the draft in our pinned tweet @BackPagePod. And remember, it's just a bit of fun! Except for the bits where we talk shit and take what the other person says very personally.
This week's music is from the Mirror's Edge soundtrack by Solar Fields.

1. THQ 6/10
Rare launch title
3. Problematic first-person shooter
4. Kinect dance game
5. Pretentious XBLA Game
6. Pick one- Neverdead or Mindjack
7. Game with 'MX or 'ATV' in the title
8. The landfill award for forgotten peripheral game
9. Bush-administration-as-hell Tom Clancy game
10. Fable game that isn't Fable 2

//TBD
- Xbox Live (multiplayer game)
- XBLA game
- FPS
- RPG
- One of 'those' 7s
- Exclusive
- Licensed game
- Open world
- Wild card
- Free pick

S FPS COD MW
M open world RDR
M fps Bioshock
S exclusive fable 2
M licensed Arkham city
S RPG ME2
M WildcardLost Odyssey
SXBL Halo 3
M exclusive crackdown
S XBLA Shadow Complex
M 7/10 Binary Domain
S wildcard mirrors edge
M xbl battlefield bad company 2
S open world gta4
M xbla geometry wars 2
S free pick Bayonetta
M rpg Witcher 2
S licensed Arkham asylum
M free pick GOW2
S 7/10 spec ops the line

1. Xbox Live (online game):
2. XBLA:
3. FPS:
4. RPG:
5. One of those 7s:
6. Exclusive:
7. Licensed game:
8. Open world:
9. Wild card:
10. Free pick:
Samuel's picks
Halo 3
Shadow Complex
Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
Mass Effect 2
Spec Ops: The Line
Fable 2
Batman: Arkham Asylum
Grand Theft Auto 4
Mirror's Edge
Bayonetta
Matthew's picks
Battlefield: Bad Company 2
Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved 2
BioShock
The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings
Binary Domain
Crackdown
Batman: Arkham City
Red Dead Redemption
Lost Odyssey
Gears of War 2
XXL Episode 14: Our Favourite TV Episodes
From Inside No. 9 to Matthew's beloved Northern Exposure, in this episode we each share 10 TV episodes that we love. Thanks for your support, and cheers to Liam Richardson for the edits!

//TBD
Samuel's episodes
1.
The show: Twin Peaks
The episode: Beyond Life and Death (season 2, episode 22)
2.
The show: Lost
The episode: The Other 48 Days (season 2, episode 7)
3.
The show: Peep Show
The episode: Shrooming (series 3, episode 3)
4.
The show: The Simpsons
The episode: 22 Short Films About Springfield (season 7, episode 21)
5.
The show: The Leftovers
The episode: International Assassin (season 2, episode 8)
6.
The show: Barry
The episode Ronny/Lilly (season 2, episode 5)
7.
The show: Black Mirror
The episode: Shut Up and Dance (season 3, episode 3)
8.
The shows: Buffy/Angel
The episodes: Restless (season 4, episode 22), Reunion (season 2, episode 10)
9.
The show: Mad Men
The episode: The Wheel (season 1, episode 13)
10.
The show: Inside No. 9
The episode: The Devil of Christmas (series 3, episode 1)
Matthew's episodes:
1.
The show: Alias
The episode: Phase One (S2, E13)
2.
The show: Deadwood
The episode: A Two Headed Beast (S3, E5)
3.
The show: The Sopranos
The episode: Pine Barrens (S3, E13)
4.
The show: Northern Exposure
The episode: Burning Down The House (S3, E14)
5.
The show: Cheers
The episode: Showdown Parts 1&2 (S1, E21/22)
6.
The show: The Wire
The episode: Middle Ground (S3, E11)
7.
The show: Better Call Saul
The episode: Chicanery (S3, E5)
8.
The Show: The Office (US)
The episode: Dinner Party
9.
The Show: Sandman
The episode: The Sound of her Wings
10.
The show: Inside No 9
The episode: A Quiet Night In


Tv shows
Matthew
Alias S2E13 Phase One
Deadwood S03E05 A Two Headed Beast
The Sopranos S03e13 pine barrens
Northern exposure s03e14 burning down the house
Cheers S01E21 and S01E22 Showdown
The Wire S03E11 Middle Ground
Better Call Saul S03e05 Chicanery
The Office Dinner Party
Sandman The Sound of her Wings
Inside number 9 A Quiet Night In


Samuel
Twin Peaks last Ep of S1 Beyond life and death
Lost s02e07 the other 48 days
Peep Show s03E03 Shrooming
The Simpsons S07E21 22 Short Films about Springfield
The Leftovers S02E08 International Assassin
Barry S02E05 Ronny Lilly
Black Mirror S03E03 Shut up and dance
Buffy S04E22 Hush
Angel S02e10 reunion
Mad Men S01E13 The Carousel
Inside number 9 the devil of Xmas, call centre, Zanzibar

Honourable Mentions: Community, Arrested Development, Crazy Eyes Killer in Curb, Getting locked out in Black Books
Episode 129: Regrettably, More Games Court.
More listeners' pre-owned purchases go on trial in this latest version of the much-despised Games Court podcast format. Enjoy, and deepest apologies.
Episode 128: Two Giant Men Play The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom
Matthew has played 40 hours of the new Zelda, Samuel has played 10. How are they getting on? There are very light spoilers for Tears of the Kingdom in this episode, and you can expect us to revisit this Nintendo epic in more detail at a later date.
This week's music is from The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom soundtrack by Manaka Kataoka, Maasa Miyoshi, Masato Ohashi and Tsukasa Usui.
Episode 127: What We've Been Playing (Jedi Survivor, Redfall, Xenoblade Chronicles 3 DLC)
Everything except Zelda is discussed in this week's episode! It's a 'what we've been playing' joint, featuring Star Wars: Jedi Survivor, Arkane's Redfall and Mad Max (2015), among other things. We also answer a ton of mailbag questions, some of which we might've answered before – who knows!

It's a low energy 6/10 pod, recorded on a Bank Holiday, but don't worry: next week's Zelda pod should be a good one.

This week's music is from the Xenoblade Chronicles 3: Future Redeemed soundtrack.

//TBD
Jedi Survivor
Redfall
Mad Max
Xenoblade Chronicles 3 DLC Future Redeemed

XL Episode 14: 50 Things In Games That Make Us Go 'Oh No'
A little while back, we celebrated 50 things in games that make us go 'ooh yeah!' Now it's time for the opposite pod: a catalogue of petty grievances from your two hosts, most of which are far too incidental to be taken seriously.

This episode was edited by Liam Richardson, and paid for by you, our brilliant supporters. Music this week comes from the Kingdom Hearts soundtrack by Yoko Shimomura and the Marvel's Spider-Man soundtrack by John Paesano.
Samuel
Using growl or a debuff attack in Pokemon when you could just tackle or scratch because this RPG is easy as piss. Grow up. (Pokemon Red/Blue)
Two-gun limits in first-person shooter games, I think popularised by Halo. Why did we decide bringing 9 guns to the field was bad? '90s shooters had this right.
Any section where you're forced to play as a secondary character and it's not very good - Mary Jane in Spider-Man being a classic recent example, though Ashley in RE4 is a rare exception.
When an RPG gets so suddenly hard you're trapped in a location where you can't grind or you can grind and it's really boring (FF3 and FF10).
Tie-ins that have a good licence and waste them - and that was your one shot. Lost: Via Domus is a good example. Futurama. The Sopranos (okay maybe that one had no chance). MI
Those fucking turrets at the start of Control in GoldenEye. Generally the late game difficulty curve in that game.
Crawling through gaps in cliffs, even though we're now in the era of fucking SSDs (Jedi Survivor).
Character barks in any hero shooter you can name where the character's got a bit too much personality. Particular shoutout to 'New kill leader. They can have it, my sights are set higher' from Valkyrie and 'mama got a brand new bag' from Loba in Apex Legends.
RPG characters who go 'I'm not sure about this guy!' and you have to win them around. Like Panam's gang in Cyberpunk, I'd have just headshotted the lot of them if given the opportunity.
When you're shot at so many times in a first-person shooter you now lack visibility because it's gone black and white, thereby making you less effective at defending yourself.
When enemies use flamethrower attacks on you, and all you can do is roll around or stand there and take damage - there's no good counter for fire and you can't really take cover from it. (MGS3, TimeSplitters 2, Jedi Survivor again). See also, poison attacks. Are these ever good unless you're playing a turn-based RPG?
When you cannot kill or injure friendly NPCs in an open world game (mention mad Max water NPCs).
When you see a red symbol in a Bethesda RPG that says not to pickpocket something. It means I never do and get to see the hilarious consequences.
When you scour every radio station in an open world game and it has zero music you like. Rockstar always get this right, so why can't every game?
Barriers in games that stop you from driving vehicles into impractical places and doing dumb shit like taking a tank through a corridor. In Halo 3, I want to play a mode where I can drive the Scorpion everywhere.
The Random Rule in Final Fantasy 8's Triple Triad.
When games have an achievement referring to the pet the dog phenomenon (also Jedi Survivor - the Twitter account is fine but let's not overcook the point).
Codexes. I ain't playing a game to read dawg.
When games tell me what my friends have been up to in that game - Returnal sending me messages about Tom Senior's progress Atropos can get in the bin.
 When God of War tried to make me feel bad about beating Zeus to death. My guy needed to get that out his system.
Any racing mission in an open world game that's otherwise not about racing - this goes all the way back to ropey races in the PS2 GTAs.
When the run button is on anything but the left bumper, A button or clicking in the left stick (my preferred option). Mad Max has you running with the right trigger, which is clearly deranged.
People talking about breakable weapons in Breath of the Wild (not the weapons themselves).
When you get to the end of a Lego game level and you have like three bits of a minikit even though you spent about 2 hours exploring that bad boy.
How crap the summons are in Kingdom Hearts - all-timer bits of Disney iconography turning up to do no fucking damage.
Matthew
Mashing button to kill minotaur in God of War OR God of War medusas turning you to stone and you insta dying.
The Koopalings in Mario: always shit boss fights.
Underwhelming statistical perks or skills in RPGs - shotguns have extra 2% accuracy! 10% damage boost against robots! I want my options to open up and blossom.
Knockback when *you* attack something else in Hollow Knight. And yes, I know there's a charm to negate it.
Photo modes on weird button combos that you can easily activate by accident. Cyberpunk/AC Valhalla. Think of players with heavy thumbs.
Obscure story triggers in visual novels. See: Famicom Detective Club and Ace Attorney investigation segments.
Giant wasps/flies/mosquitoes. Spiders: fine. Buzzing things that are small and hard to hit: bad.
Bad companion AI - worst case: Melia in Xenoblade is basically unusable unless you play as her.
Eric Idle saying "That doesn't work" in Discworld as you combine every item with every hotspot trying to crack it's nonsensical puzzles.
Metroidvanias with bad collectibles - Star Wars Jedi is bad for this - new antennas for BD1? Urk! - but also Control stash box with random mods/crafting materials.
The noise it makes when Link only has one heart left.
When Minesweeper forces you to make a guess. (Never the first move - if that's a mine it gets moved to top left corner or closest square to.)
Zelda: when there's a 'listen again' cue at the end of text boxes you mash through so you end up hearing the owl tutorial in Ocarina ten times in a row.
Objectives or items hidden in caves underground but there's no height indicator and you can't find the entrance.
The moons you have to buy in Mario Odyssey - oh cool, a portion of the game I complete in a shop. Bad.
The Keihen Gang incursions in Judgement forcing you to face the same minibosses again and again. See also: Majima Everywhere in Kiwami.
Complicated menus you need to navigate in real time. Monster Hunter, Elden Ring… just pause motherfucker.
Hidden puzzles and picarats in Professor Layton forcing me to tap on every bit of every screen out of fear of missing out.
Why do 3D Mario games have a Game Over condition when it does nothing but waste a tiny bit of time. Sunshine is terrible for this.
Xenoblade 2 - the amount of dogshit you get from blade resonance. In a world where bonding is meant to feel special why do I end up with 50 chumps hanging around.
Not being able to auto swap better weapons into your inventory in Breath of the Wild.
How weird and empty Psychonauts 2 levels are after you've completed them.
The writing in Platinum games.
Items/mechanics that mark all points of interest on a map. Makes the rest of the world instantly redundant. Give me option to turn it off (like the Witcher 3 does with undiscovered map markers)
Games which encourage you to search for collectibles but are also full of invisible triggers for points on no return so you accidentally cut yourself off. Plague Tale does this.
Episode 126: How To Make A Video Game (with Jay Baylis)
Monster collecting RPG Cassette Beasts just launched on Steam via PC and Game Pass, and on May 25th it'll also launch on Xbox and Nintendo Switch. To celebrate, returning pod guest Jay Baylis (the cursed Sonic and Pokémon episodes) talks us through the creation of the game.

This week's music is from the Cassette Beasts soundtrack by Joel Baylis.
PC Gaming Classics Episode 6: Quake vs Half-Life
In the finale of the Patreon-funded miniseries from Jeremy Peel and Phil Iwaniuk, it's a showdown of revolutionary late '90s first-person shooters: id Software's Quake versus Valve's Half-Life. We'll pop the Review Wars poll up on Twitter so you can select the winner this month.

Thanks for supporting this show, and we're excited to see what Jeremy and Phil make next! The rights to this series are now fully in their hands – for us, it was a treat to see it come to life under the Back Page banner. Hopefully you enjoyed it too.
Episode 125: The Shinji Mikami Hall of Fame (with Rich Stanton)
With Samuel away, Matthew and returning special guest Rich Stanton from PC Gamer build a hall of fame from Resident Evil creator Shinji Mikami's body of work.

This week's music is from the Resident Evil: Director's Cut by Makoto Tomozawa, Koichi Hiroki and Masami Ueda.

Who Framed Roger Rabbit No
Disney’s Aladdin	No
Resident Evil	Yes
Dino Crisis	No
Resident Evil 2002 Maybe
P.N.03 No
Resident Evil 4	Yes
God Hand	Yes
Vanquish Yes
The Evil Within Maybe

The Evil Within 2 Bonus?
Hideki Kimaya

Re
Remake
RE4
God Hand
Vanquish
Kimaya
XXL Episode 13: Guilty Pleasure Movies
From Final Fantasy VII: Advent Children (eugh!) to Russell Crowe's Robin Hood (oof!), we run through some of our guilty pleasures on the film side in a podcast that somehow ran very long (so, apologies if you're still climbing the best games of 2015 mountain).

Thanks for your support in making it happen! And cheers to Liam Richardson for his edits on this one
Matthew's movies (AKA the Armie Hammer Hall of Fame)
Super Troopers
Fracture
Star Trek V: The Final Frontier (+ other bad Trek)
The Lone Ranger
Daredevil
Shoot Em Up
Death on the Nile (Poirot films in general)
Escape Room
Robin Hood
The Chronicles of Riddick
Samuel's movies
Alien Covenant
Angel Heart
Cruel Intentions
FF7 Advent Children
Face/Off
The Great Gatsby
The Matrix Reloaded
Under the Silver Lake
Austin Powers The Spy Who Shagged Me
Batman Vs Superman: Dawn of Justice/Zack Snyder's Justice League
Episode 124: The Best Games of 2015
Our popular series of best of lists returns with the 2015 edition, featuring two top 10s of the year's greatest games. Hear about Matthew and Samuel's friendship emerging during a press trip to Germany, and forgive us as we get tired towards the end of this very long episode since we recorded it on a Sunday night.

This week's music is from the Fallout 4 soundtrack by Inon Zur and the Hotline Miami 2: Wrong Number soundtrack by The Green Kingdom (aka Mike Cottone).
Samuel
10. 80 Days
9. Until Dawn
8. Mad Max
7. Bloodborne
6. Batman: Arkham Knight
5. Her Story
4. Fallout 4
3. Hotline Miami 2: Wrong Number
2. Rocket league
1. Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain

Honourable Mentions: Broforce, Everybody's Gone to the Rapture, Splatoon , D4: Dark Dreams Don't Die, Destiny: The Taken King, Cities: Skylines
Matthew
10. The Magic Circle
9. The Room Three
8. Dying Light
7. Hand of Fate
6. Steins;Gate
5. Tales from the Borderlands
4. Batman: Arkham Knight
3. Ori and the Blind Forest
2. The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
1. Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain
Honourable Mentions: Resident Evil: Revelations 2, Xenoblade Chronicles X, Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes, Grow Home, Rise of the Tomb Raider, SteamWorld Heist
Episode 123: The Best Star Wars Games
Samuel assembles a power ranking of the video games based on the Star Wars movies, and Matthew politely humours him for two hours.

This week's music is from the Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic soundtrack by Jeremy Soule and The Force Unleashed soundtrack by Mark Griskey.
E tier
Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith
Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace
Star Wars: Bounty Hunter
Star Wars Episode I: Jedi Power Battles
Star Wars: Masters of Teräs Käsi
D tier
Star Wars: The Force Unleashed II
Star Wars Racer Revenge
Star Wars Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike
C tier
Star Wars: The Force Unleashed
Star Wars Episode I: Battle for Naboo
Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire
Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds
Star Wars: Jedi Starfighter
Star Wars: Rebel Assault
Star Wars: Rebel Assault II: The Hidden Empire
Star Wars Battlefront (2015)
Star Wars Battlefront II (2017)
B tier
Star Wars: Empire at War
Star Wars: Battlefront (2004)
Star Wars: Battlefront II (2005)
Lego Star Wars series
Star Wars: Squadrons

A tier
Fallen Order
Rogue Squadron
Rogue Leader
Dark Forces
DF2 Jedi Knight
Ep 1 Racer
SW trilogy arcade
Republic commando
X Wing
X wing alliance

S tier
KOTOR
KOTOR 2
Tie fighter
Jedi outcast
Jedi Academy
XL Episode 13: The Best Mario Moments Vol. 1
To tie in with a dubious Mario movie, we select 35 of the best moments featuring Nintendo's iconic platformer hero. Thanks to Liam Richardson for the edits, and to you for your support!
This week's music is from the Super Mario Galaxy soundtrack by Mahito Yokota and Koji Kondo.
Super Mario Bros - Grabbing a Fire Flower in Super Mario Bros
Super Mario Bros - caning it to the top of a level and realising you can access Warp Zones into other levels
Mario Is Missing - Fucking a Koopa up in Marrakech or some bullshit
Super Mario Bros 2 - going to clouds and decking Birdo
Super Mario Bros 3 - airships were cool, but I like the special coin ship (the idea of rare surprises feels long gone)
Super Mario Bros 3 - fighting the sun, this ongoing duel with darting orb
Super Mario Bros. 3 - Kuribos Shoe/ Goombas Shoe - the power up with no love. World 5-3 only. But I love the nod to it in the ice skate in 3D World
Super Mario World - Donut Secret House - the great vibe of ghost house, and it has a big motherfuckin' boo
Super Mario Bros Deluxe - getting a fuckton of points and unlocking the Lost Level
Super Mario 64 - butt stomping whomp king (bonus shout out to remade version in Galaxy 2)
Super Mario 64 - Tick Tock Clock. Great platforming gauntlet with cool trick of speed change based on when you enter.
Super Mario 64 - Big Boo's Haunt is legit stressful and scary. Piano with teeth - Resi never did anything that fucked up.
Super Mario Sunshine - the reflective solar panels + shout-out to following wiggler fight - knocking him over with sand is ace.
Super Mario Sunshine - the elasticity of Bloopers tentacle tugs or yanking tails of the chain chomp dog things.
Super Mario Sunshine - losing the backpack. Navigating gooey inferno in Pianta Village is almost immersive sim-y - people using the water from river to clear a path.
Super Mario Galaxy - the Gusty Garden music and that YouTube video
Super Mario Galaxy - walloping bouldergeist with the boo bombs
Super Mario Galaxy - the Rolling Green Galaxy
Super Mario Galaxy - ice skating on the ice donut at the start of Freeze Flame Galaxy. It’s just an animation triumph and a lovely time waster. - Better use of of it in Shiverburn Galaxy in Galaxy 2.
Super Mario Galaxy - the gravity flipping of Bowser’s Dark Matter Plant (I also dig the bowser fights in this - predicting his trajectory to whack him will always be good).
Super Mario Galaxy 2 - Yoshi is quite good in this one. Grappling over gaps, running up vertical surfaces. A power up with power ups.
Super Mario galaxy 2 - Cloud Mario
Super Mario Galaxy 2 - Flip Out Galaxy - alternating platform pieces controlled by spin jump - lots of wall jump which is always good. Vertical version of Flip Swap Galaxy.
Super Mario 3D Land - realising they built a game where the camera truly gets the most out of the 3DS' 3D feature
Super Mario 3D Land - being chased by cosmic clones so you can never catch a breath
Super Mario 3D Land - there's twice as much game here than I realised
Super Mario 3D World - exploring a 3D Mario level with another person
Super Mario 3D World - trying to control Plessie the dinosaur simultaneously
Super Mario 3D World - Beep Block Skyway - blocks changing on the beat
Super Mario 3D World - the Bowser Express is a fuckin' great boss fight
Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury - Plessie is now an open world vehicle
Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury - Crisp Climb castle with the Propellor Box powerup - good showcase for it
Super Mario Odyssey - the retro 2d levels are all great, but 2D Secret Treasure in Mushroom Kingdom has proper galaxy gravity. Sublime.
Super Mario Odyssey - Koopa Freerunning - where you realise just how capable Odyssey mario is.
Any Mario level where it's just some cake
Episode 122: What We've Been Playing (Diablo 4, PSVR2, Tchia)
In this week's episode, Samuel suffers from jetlag and Matthew suffers from living as we recount what we've been playing lately – everything except Resident Evil 4 Remake, anyway. Games discussed this week include Celeste, Diablo 4, Tchia, Resident Evil 1 Remake and a slew of PSVR 2 stuff. We'll return with our next regular episode on April 14th, though Patreon folk will get a new XL episode in the meantime on the best Mario moments.
This week's music is from the Final Fantasy X soundtrack by Nobuo Uematsu, Masashi Hamauzu and Junya Nakano.
Diablo IV
Tchia
Horizon Call of the Mountain
Pistol Whip
Resident Evil (2002)
Tetris Effect
Pavlov
Celeste
XXL Episode 12: Christopher Nolan Movies Ranked
The podcast lunges head-first into self-parody as two large guys in their 30s rank the movies of Christopher Nolan. Thank you for supporting us in inflicting this on the world!
Here's the list as we ranked them:
1. Inception (2010)
2. Memento (2000)
3. The Dark Knight (2008)
4. The Prestige (2006)
5. Dunkirk (2017)
6. Insomnia (2002)
7. Batman Begins (2005)
8. Interstellar (2014)
9. Tenet (2020)
10. The Dark Knight Rises (2012)
11. Following (1998)
Episode 121: Two El Gigantes Play Resident Evil 4 Remake
We've both finished Resident Evil 4 Remake, which is out now! The original was an era-defining game for us, so what's the deal with this one? There are two parts here: a non-spoilery section then a more spoiler-y one. We hope you like it.

This week's music is from the Resident Evil 4 soundtrack by Misao Senbongi and Shusaku Uchiyama.
PC Gaming Classics Episode 5: Jurassic Park: Trespasser
Jeremy and Phil stretch the definition of 'classic' to its limit in this penultimate episode of our Patreon miniseries, which explores the flawed but fascinating Jurassic  Park: Trespasser from 1998. Thanks for helping to bring this miniseries to life!
Look out for the Review Wars poll in our pinned tweet @BackPagePod this week.
Episode 120: From PC Zone to Writing Games (with Will Porter)
Will Porter, former PC Zone editor turned game developer, is our guest this week. Hear about Zone's epic rivalry with PC Gamer and how it gradually died down over time, and learn about how Will ended writing for games like Alien: Isolation and Mafia: Definitive Edition.
This week's music is from the Mafia: Definitive Edition soundtrack by Jesse Harlin.
XL Episode 12: 20 SNES and Mega Drive Games That Shaped Our Gaming Tastes
Our key SNES and Mega Drive games take centre stage in this month's XL episode – please excuse our lack of expertise as we dig into the origins of our respective journeys into video games. Everything from Another World to Batman Returns gets some half-remembered waffle in this episode. Plus: hear all about Matthew's attempts to renew his life insurance policy!

Thanks to Liam Richardson for the edits. This week's music is from the Sonic the Hedgehog soundtrack by Masato Nakamura, and the Final Fantasy IV soundtrack by Nobuo Uematsu.
Played at the time (Samuel)
 Sonic the Hedgehog
 Ecco the Dolphin
 Castle of Illusion Starring Mickey Mouse
 EA Double Header (mostly EA Hockey)
 Batman Returns (Mega Drive)
Played after the fact (Samuel)
 Final Fantasy 4
 Chrono Trigger
 Super Mario All-Stars
 Mean Bean Machine
 Michael Jackson's Moonwalker
Played at the time (Matthew)
 Disney's Aladdin
 Another World
 Mickey Mania
 Mega Bomberman
 Micro Machines
Played after the fact (Matthew)
Super Castlevania IV
 Gunstar Heroes
 Kirby Super Star
 Super Punch Out
 Legend of the Mystical Ninja
Episode 119: The Capcom Games Draft
The draft is back! Matthew and Samuel compete to pick the 10 best Capcom games from the developer/publisher's extensive and dazzling library. If you like fighting games, apologies in advance. You can vote for the winner in the pinned tweet @backpagepod on Twitter. We'll post the full list on Twitter after a few days have passed.

This week's music is from the Devil May Cry 5 soundtrack by Casey Edwards, Ali Edwards and Cliff Lloret, and the Onimusha 2: Samurai's Destiny soundtrack by Taro Iwashiro.
Categories
- Fighting game
- Survival horror
- Remake
- Retro game
- Dead franchise
- Shu Takumi
- Ill-advised western spin-off
- Modern classic
- Wild card
- Free pick
Rules
No compilations, dead franchise means a game from a series with no new entries in 10 years, retro game has to be 20+ years old, modern classic has to be in the last 10 years, Shu Takumi is any game with his name in the credits.
Draft Order
S Resi 4
M Western spin-off DmC
M Dead Franchise Okami
S Shu Takumi Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney
S Remake Resi 2
M Remake Resi 1 GC
M Survival Horror Resi 7
S Modern Classic Devil May Cry 5
S Fighting Game SF3 Third Strike
M Modern Classic Monster Hunter World
M Shu Takumi Ghost Trick
S Wild card God Hand
S Retro game Dino Crisis
M Fighting Game Ultra Street Fighter 4
M Free Pick Viewtiful Joe
S Dead Franchise Onimusha 2
S Survival Horror Resident Evil 1996
M Retro Game D&D Shadows Over Mystara
M Wild Card Glass Rose
S Western spin-off Bionic Commando
Results



Samuel
Matthew
Fighting game
Street Fighter III: 3rd Strike
Ultra Street Fighter IV
﻿﻿﻿Survival horror
Resident Evil (1996)
Resident Evil 7
Remake
Resident Evil 2 Remake
Resident Evil Remake (2002)
Retro game
Dino Crisis
Dungeons & Dragons: Shadow Over Mystara
Dead franchise
Onimusha 2: Samurai's Destiny
Okami
Shu Takumi
Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney
Ghost Trick: Phantom Detective
Western spin-off
Bionic Commando
DmC: Devil May Cry
Modern classic
Devil May Cry 5
Monster Hunter World
Wild card
God Hand
Glass Rose
Free pick
Resident Evil 4
Viewtiful Joe

Episode 118: 3DS and Wii U Games Worth Grabbing Before The eShop Closes
On this week's shorter episode, Matthew fires through a whole bunch of recommendations to check out on 3DS and Wii U before their respective eShops close on March 27th.
This week's music is from the Affordable Space Adventures soundtrack by Harry Damm.
Here's the full list of what Matthew discussed:
Wii U eshop
Affordable Space Adventures
Year Walk (£6.29)
Scram Kitty And His Buddy On Rails (£9)
NES Remix 1 + 2 - the 3DS version isn’t the whole thing
Star Fox Guard
Wii Virtual Console games it might be cheaper to buy hereBeat The Beat -Rhythm Paradise (18)
Pandora’s Tower (£18)
Sin & Punishment: Successor of the Skies (£18)
Metroid Prime Trilogy (£18)
A Shadow’s Tale (£18)
Project Zero 2 (£18)
Zack and Wiki - is sort of available for not much more
Same deal but for DS Virtual ConsoleFire Emblem: Shadow Dragon
Picross 3D
Kirby Power Paintbrush
Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3 - has 38 e-Reader levels
Xenoblade Chronicles X is easier to buy digital and not have to worry about data packs to download. But who is buying Xenoblade Chronicles X now?
Mini Mario and Friends - free version of something I wouldn’t pay money for
3DS eshop
Attack of the Friday Monsters
Crimson Shroud
Pullblox
Shin Megami Tensei games (IV, Strange Journey, Soul Hackers, Devil Survivor 1+2 remakes)
Pocket Card Jockey
Hydroventure: Spin Cycle
Box Boy Trilogy - BoxBoy, BoxBoxBoy, Bye-Bye BoxBoy
Ace Attorney: Dual Destinies + Spirit of Justice - both on Android, but they live on Nintendo handhelds. Big DLC case in each:
Fire Emblem Fates - Birthright, Conquest and Revelation
Harmoknight
Gunman Clive
Tokyo Crash Mobs
Steel Empire
Chase Cold Case Investigations
Nintendo 3D Classics - Kirby’s Adventure, Kid Icarus, Urban Champion
Sega 3D Classics - Gunstar Heroes, Outrun

XXL Episode 11: Matthew's Korean Cinema Deep Dive
Matthew offers a rundown on his favourite films from South Korea, including obvious picks like Oldboy alongside a bunch of stuff you might not have heard of before. Thanks for your support in making this episode happen! Find the list of movies discussed in this episode below:
The first biggie: Oldboy (Park Chan-wook, 2003)
Matthew rec: Sympathy for Mr Vengeance (Park Chan-wook, 2002)
Matthew rec: Desire To Kill (Jo Won-He, 2010)
Matthew rec: The City of Violence (Ryoo Seung-wan, 2006)
The second biggie: Parasite (Bong Joon-Ho)
Matthew rec: Barking Dogs Never Bite (Bong Joon Ho, 2000)
Matthew rec: The Spy Gone North (Yoon Jong-bin, 2018)
Matthew rec: Peppermint Candy (Lee Chang-dong, 1999)
Matthew rec: A Hard Day (Kim Seong-hun, 2014)
The third biggie: I Saw The Devil (Kim Jee-Woon, 2010)
Matthew rec: A Bittersweet Life (Kim Jee-Woon, 2005)
Matthew rec: Midnight (Kwon Oh-seung, 2021)
Mathew rec: New World (Park Hoon-jung, 2013)
The fourth biggie (Decision to Leave, Park Chan-wook, 2022)
Honourable mentions: Breathless, Public Enemy
Episode 117: The Wii U Hall of Fame (with Ashley Day)
Our task this week is to construct a 10-game hall of fame (or perhaps hall of infamy?) for the Nintendo Wii U. Joining us to assemble the list is Team17's Ashley Day, formerly of Nintendo UK and gamesTM magazine. It's a good episode, and hopefully fair to a weird console that's rightly been mined to form the backbone of the Nintendo Switch's killer library.
Check out Ash's site Games From The Black Hole here: https://gamesfromtheblackhole.wordpress.com/
Games Discussed
Batman Arkham City Armoured Edition
New Super Mario Bros U
Nintendoland - Yes
Rabbids Land
Tank! Tank! Tank!
Zombi U - yes
Nano Assault Neo
007 Legends
Tekken tag Tournament 2
Marvel Avengers Battle for Earth
Monster Hunter 3 Ultimate
Bit Trip Runner 2
Lego City Undercover
Game and Wario - Yes
Wii Sports Club
Super Luigi U
Pikmin 3 - Maybe
Angry Birds Trilogy
The Wonderful 101 - Yes
Rayman Legends - Yes
The Legend of Zelda Wind Waker HD - Yes
Sonic Lost World
Deus Ex HR DC
Wii Party U
Angry Birds Star Wars
Mario and Sonic at the Winter Olympics
Super Mario 3D World
Scribblenauts Unlimited
Wii Fit U
NES Remix
Dr Luigi
Donkey Kong Country Tropical Freeze
Pac-Man The Ghostly Adventure
Mario Kart 8
Pushmo World
Hyrule Warriors
Bayonetta 2
Sonic Boom
Smash Bros
Captain Toad Treasure Tracker
Mario Party 10
Affordable Space Adventures - Yes
Kirby and the Rainbow Paintbrush
Mario Vs Donkey Kong Tipping Stars
Splatoon - Yes
Art Academy Atelier
Yoshi’s Woolly World
Devil’s Third
Super Mario Maker - Yes
Year Walk
Shovel Knight
Rodea the Sky Soldier
Mario Tennis Ultra Smash
Xenoblade Chronicles X - Yes
Twilight Princess HD
Pokken Tournament
StarFox Zero
StarFox Guard
Mario and Friends Amibo Challenge
Tokyo Mirage Sessions FE
Mario & sonic at the Rio Olympic Games
Paper Mario Colour Splash
The Legend of Zelda Breath of the Wild
Hall of Fame
Nintendoland
Zombi U
The Wonderful 101
Rayman Legends
Wind Waker HD
Affordable Space Adventures
Splatoon
Super Mario Maker
Xenoblade Chronicles X
StarFox Zero
PC Gaming Classics Episode 4: X-Com: UFO Defense
In this month's episode of this awesome miniseries, Jeremy Peel and Phil Iwaniuk turn their attention to 1993's X-Com: UFO Defense, or UFO: Enemy Unknown as it was known in Europe. This foundational title in the turn-based strategy genre is hard as heck these days – but does it stand the test of time regardless? Find out in this fun reappraisal.
Look out for the Review Wars poll on Twitter this week where you can vote for the winner.
Episode 116: The Last of Us Revisited – and our Verdict on the TV Show
On this week's episode, we go deep on The Last of Us. We recall our original thoughts on the game from back in 2013 and give our verdict on the HBO show so far. Plus, Matthew talks us through his thoughts on the PS5 remake of the game. Apologies for the half-remembered bits. We'll explain the spoiler rules in the episode.
This week's music is from The Last of Us soundtrack by Gustavo Santaolalla.
XL Episode 11: 50 Things That Make Us Go 'Ooh Yeah!' in Video Games
On this silly episode of the podcast, we each throw in 25 things that satisfy us in games – from Samuel nuking Paris in Civ to Matthew euthanising someone in Perfect Dark. Thanks, as ever, to Liam Richardson for the edits! And thanks to you for your ongoing support.
Samuel's list
Slicing through grass in a 2D Zelda - ooh yeah (and the interactivity of the world more generally, chickens and dogs, Link's Awakening)
Jumping off a building with a nice glide or landing mechanic (Jensen's landing gear in Deus Ex: Human Revolution/Mankind Divided)
Preposterous limit breaks in Final Fantasy games (Omnislash, Lionheart, Attack Reels). Can also extend to summon animations.
Shooting enemies through the windscreen while they're driving a vehicle (GTAs)
The precise moment before an enemy attacks - mega damage sword attack (Onimusha 2) - the perfect parry can sort of link in to this
A melee attack that knocks an enemy into other enemies (Resi 4, God Hand)
Capturing a city you just nuked in Civ
Spider-Man's webs actually connecting to buildings (Spider-Man 2, Marvel's Spidey PS4)
Murdering your own allies and getting away with it (Halo)
Hopping over a fence in an immersive sim by precariously stacking a load of objects up (every Deus Ex)
Going out of bounds and discovering cool shit or broken bits of the game (GTA3, FF15 demo)
Deflecting blaster shots with a lightsaber (various SW games, best done in Jedi Fallen Order) - KH
Hitting someone with an electric attack and watching them get zapped on the spot - bonus points if it conducts with water (stun rod in Resi, BioShock, God of War)
When you burrow underground in Worms and airstrike from the safety of your makeshift base
When you do a jumping stab into a weak spot in Shadow of the Colossus - ooh yeah
Watching a human player run through an area you've filled with remote mines (GoldenEye, GTA)
Activating a parachute - or reactivating a parachute (Just Cause, GTA)
A good, violent finisher (The Darkness, Doom Eternal, God of War, Ezio era Assassin's Creeds, Sleeping Dogs, Sifu, Suplex in God Hand)
Throwing a melee weapon as a form of attack (Sifu, superhot, Hotline Miami) - or indeed kicking one (Sifu)
When you slip past another vehicle in nitrous mode (Burnout, Split Second)
Active reload mechanics (Gears of War, Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy, new Star Wars Battlefront 2).
A slide that leads into a melee attack (Mirror's Edge)
Automatic shotguns (GTA, Doom Eternal - maybe shotguns in general)
Clearing a room in bullet time (Max Payne)
Turning into Super Sonic hehehehe (Sonic 2)
Explosive barrels - even when they're bullshit (007 nightfire)
Sliding a long block in Tetris and clearing 4 lines
When you hold a button on a powerful attack for too long so the projectile automatically releases - but you stick it into an enemy at the last moment
Bringing an AT-AT down (Shadows of the Empire)
Matthew's list
A row of coins perfectly placed to match a character’s jumping arc
When a boss’s name comes up at the start of a Zelda boss fight
The noise it makes when you pluck hair chins from an onion in Rhythm Tengoku
Horrible beat em up fatalities (specifically the ones in Eternal Champions)
Ragdolling through air after you crash a motorbike in GTA4
Swimming in anti-gravity water (Super Mario Galaxy 2, Donkey Kong Jungle Beat)
The harp autotuning/harmonising to the soundtrack in Skyward Sword
Stealing a balloon in Mario Kart balloon battle, the ultimate fuck you
When the camera pulls back in God of War and you keep playing, only teeny tiny
Killing people in a tactics game when it isn’t even your go (overwatch in various, counter attacks in fire emblem)
Manualling in Tony Hawk
Moves that earn you back action points in turn based tactics games (Gears Tactics, Fire Emblem Engage)
When there's a piano and you can interact with the keys (Half Life Alyx, Overwatch)
When 12 cars smash through a wall in unison in a Forza Horizon cross country race
Good shadows cast by torchlight
The brutal one-two punch of Perfect Dark’s Tranquilizer - sedate and lethal injection
Window glass that shatters/cracks convincingly
Landing a Smash Bros attack with slow wind-up - Samus’s beat, Little Mac’s KO.
Seeing tranquilliser darts accurately stick into guards in Metal gear Solid 2.
When liquid in a glass or bottle reacts to it moving
Weapons that pin enemies to walls (Messiah, Fear)
A really good ground pound
Weapons/abilities that make enemies attack their friends (various poison darts in Assassin's Creed, etc)
When a running powerup recontextualizes seemingly unimportant corridors (Metroid Dread Speed Boost)
The music callback in the final case of Ace Attorney Trials and Tribulations
Episode 115: The Wii and DS Years of Official Nintendo Magazine (with Neil Long)
Former ONM editor and Mobilegamer.biz founder Neil Long is this week's guest. Learn what it was like to run the official UK magazine during the dominance of the Wii and DS era – including a few horror stories he'd probably rather forget.

This week's music is from the Dragon Quest 6 soundtrack by Koichi Sugiyama.
Episode 114: What We've Been Playing (February 2023)
Hi-Fi Rush, GoldenEye 007 and Fire Emblem: Engage are among the games we've been playing lately – those are the focus of this episode, along with a barrage of listeners questions that vary between insightful and nonsensical.

This week's music is from the GoldenEye 007 soundtrack by Graeme Norgate, Grant Kirkhope and Robin Beanland

Hi-Fi Rush
Fire Emblem: Engage
GoldenEye 007
RE:CALL
Iron Man VR
XXL Episode 10: 30 Comic Books That Are Worth Reading
Samuel babbles about comics for two hours and Matthew politely tolerates him. Thank you for your support.

Here are the books discussed in this episode:

Batman: Year One by Frank Miller and David Mazzuchelli
The Fade Out by Ed Brubaker and Sean Phillips
House of X/Powers of X by Jonathan Hickman, Pepe Larraz
Maus by Art Spiegelman
From Hell by Alan Moore and Eddie Campbell
Blacksad vol 1 by Juan Diaz Canales and Juanjo Guarnido
Hard Boiled by Frank Miller and Geof Darrow
We3 by Grant Morrison and Frank Quitely
Metal Gear Solid and Metal Gear Solid 2 Sons of Liberty by Ashley Wood and Kris Oprisko
Miracleman by Alan Moore and various artists
Watchmen by Alan Moore and Dave Gibbons
The Dark Knight Returns by Frank Miller, Klaus Janson and Lynn Varley
Batman: The Killing Joke by Alan Moore and Brian Bolland
Batman: The Long Halloween by Jeph Loeb and Tim Sale
Batman: The Court of Owls by Scott Snyder and Greg Capullo
Batman and Robin Vol. 1 by Grant Morrison and Frank Quitely
Kingdom Come by Kurt Busiek and Alex Ross
All-Star Superman by Grant Morrison and Frank Quitely
DC: The New Frontier by Darwyn Cooke
Daredevil by Brian Michael Bendis and Alex Maleev
Eternals by Neil Gaiman and JRJR
Immortal Iron Fist by Ed Brubaker, Matt Fraction and David Aja
Superior Spider-Man by Dan Slott and various artists
Thor: God of Thunder by Jason Aaron and Esad Ribic
The Vision by Tom King and Gabriel Walta
Wonder Woman: Dead Earth by Daniel Warren Johnson
Strange Adventures by Tom King with Doc Shaner and Mitch Gerards
Decorum by Jonathan Hickman and Mike Huddlestone
The Many Deaths of Laila Star by Ram V
Wonder Woman Historia by Kelley Sue DeConnick and various artists
Episode 113: The Best Games of 2014
After a long break, we're back with two top 10 lists from a year gone by – this time, 2014. Expect a mixture of mag recollections and deep analysis of the games that mattered (and some that didn't).

This week's music is from the Professor Layton vs. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney soundtrack by Tomohito Nishiura and Yasumasa Kitagawa, the Kalimba soundtrack by Magnus Damgaard, Lennart Kiel and Asger Kirkemann Strandby, and the Mario Kart 8 soundtrack by Shiho Fujii, Atsuko Asahi, Ryo Nagamatsu, Yasuaki Iwata and Kenta Nagata.
Matthew
10. NES Remix 2
9. Professor Layton vs. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney
8. Kirby: Triple Deluxe
7. The Evil Within
6. Bayonetta 2
5. Dragon Age: Inquisition
4. Kalimba
3. Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
2. The Talos Principle
1. Mario Kart 8
Samuel
10. Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor
9. BioShock Infinite: Burial at Sea – Episode Two
8. Titanfall
7. Metal Gear Solid V: Ground Zeroes
6. Bayonetta 2
5. Dragon Age: Inquisition
4. South Park: The Stick of Truth
3. P.T.
2. Wolfenstein: The New Order
1. Alien: Isolation

Honourable Mentions: Transistor, Shovel Knight, Destiny, Sunset Overdrive, Sherlock Holmes: Crimes & Punishments, Assassin's Creed Unity, Tomodachi Life, Tales from the Borderlands.
PC Gaming Classics Episode 3: Fallout
On this month's PC Gaming Classics pod, Jeremy and Phil tackle 1997's Fallout, arguably the most important PC RPG of that decade. They delve into its creation, how its DNA filtered down to Bethesda's subsequent entries, and engage in another round of Review Wars (you can vote for that in a pinned tweet we'll put up today).

Thanks for your support – you made this miniseries happen!
Episode 112: Games Court 2023
Our most interminable podcast format, Games Court, returns! 18 listeners' pre-owned games purchases go on trial in front of the corrupt Judge Castle, who delivers shaky justice from the courtroom of his dubious island nation. From Zelda on the CD-i to Jasper Carrott's Golden Balls on Wii and DS, it's an absolute treasure trove of nonsense this week. Sorry again for the continued existence of Games Court.
This week's music is from the No More Heroes soundtrack by Masafumi Takada and Jun Fukuda.
XL Episode 10: Rockstar Open World Games Ranked
From Bully to Red Dead Redemption 2, this episode ranks pretty much all of the sandbox games published by Rockstar to date – give or take a racing game we do not understand. This episode is crammed with GTA chatter, and a ton of discussion about what sets these open world games apart from all the others that have followed in its wake.

This week's music is from the Grand Theft Auto 4 soundtrack by Michael Hunter. Thanks to Liam Richardson for the edits, and thanks to you for your support!

16. Grand Theft Auto: London 1969
15. Grand Theft Auto
14. Grand Theft Auto 2
13. Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories
12. Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories
11. Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars
10. Grand Theft Auto III
9. Grand Theft Auto: Vice City
8. Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas
7. L.A. Noire
6. Bully
5. Grand Theft Auto: Episodes from Liberty City
4. Grand Theft Auto IV
3. Red Dead Redemption
2. Grand Theft Auto V
1. Red Dead Redemption 2
Episode 111: 23 Wild Gaming Predictions About 2023
From Indiana Jones to a Nintendo Switch successor, it's time for 23 more ridiculous predictions founded on no basis of fact whatsoever.
This week's music is from The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild soundtrack by Manaka Kataoka, Yasuaki Iwata and Hajime Wakai.
Samuel
Machinegames' Indiana Jones Game Is Revealed This Year, And Features The Voice Of Harrison Ford. And It'S Set Across Many Years In Indy's Career.

A Nier Automata Sequel Is Revealed This Year, And It'S The Best Game Platinum Has Made Since Vanquish.

Suicide Squad Kills The Justice League Radiates Bad Vibes Until The Last Minute But Ends Up Being A Legit Goty Contender.

The Oculus Quest 3 Is Released This Year With Some Killer Games And Marks A Breakthrough In Vr Adoption - But The Reveal Is Weighed Down By Some Metaverse Nonsense No One Wants.

This Is The Year Sony Hard Pivots Into Making Big Multiplayer Games Happen.

A Nintendo Switch Successor Is Teased Right At The End Of The Year.

Sony Unveils Native Playstation 3 Backwards Compatibility, Leading To A Broad Reappraisal Of The Resistance Trilogy.

Game Pass Increases In Price For The First Time As Starfield Launches.

Final Fantasy 13 And Its Two Sequels Are Updated For Modern Platforms.

New Super Mario Bros Returns In Time For The Mario Movie Dropping - Which Is A Three Star Joint At Most

Elder Scrolls 3 Morrowind Remake Gets Announced.

A Link To The Past Remake Announced For Switch.
Matthew
//TBD please feel free to complete this

A similar rush of Castlevania games and media will be announced similar to Silent Hill in 2022.
A collection of the DS games will specifically be announced

A Super Mario Movie tie-in game will be announced. Specifically a 2D game.

Kid Icarus: Uprising switch port gets announced.

Starfield will be fine. Will be an unusually smooth launch for a Bethesda game.

Netflix Games will start to succeed where other mobile subscription games services have failed.

Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom will have a more traditional dungeon based structure compared to Breath of the Wild.

A Warriors tie-in for Lord of the Rings or Star Wars: Clone Wars.

A Sega Saturn mini is announced.

E3 is back, but the E3 experience is increasingly fragmented.

Top 5 games on Metacritic will be:
Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom
Hollow Knight
Resi:4 Remake
Half Life Alyx on PSVR 2
Cyberpunk Complete Edition

Episode 110: New Year Mailbag
Easing ourselves back in to another year of podcasting, we tackle more than 20 listener questions – from our favourite videogame box art to the best games we never finished. Samuel was suffering with Covid during this episode, so it's a slightly gentler one than normal.
XXL Episode 9: Best TV Shows of 2022
Two top 10 lists of our favourite TV shows from 2022. Happy New Year and thanks for your support – the regular pod will return next Friday!

Thanks to Liam Richardson for the edits on this episode.
Matthew
10. Alice in Borderland
9. Top Boy
8. Sherwood
7. Borgen Power and Glory
6. Severance
5. The English
4. Station Eleven
3. Pachinko
2. The White Lotus
1. Better Call Saul
Samuel
10. The Sandman
9. Star Trek strange new worlds
8. Andor
7. The Boys *
6. Slow Horses
5. The Bear
4. Severance
3. Better Call Saul
2. Station Eleven
1. The White Lotus

Honourable Mentions: Barry, We Own This City, 1899, The Traitors
Highly Praised but didn’t do it for me: The Rehearsal
Episode 109: The Best Games of 2022
2022 was undoubtedly a blockbuster-deprived year, but it was still a strong 12 months for games in many other ways. Our two top 10 lists reflect that state of affairs. Enjoy this nearly 3-hour rundown of our favourites from 2022, which is our last new games pod of the year as we take a short break ahead of January's episodes (though Patreon XL folks can look forward to our best TV shows of 2022 XXL episode next Friday).

Thank you for your support, and happy holidays! This week's music is from the Norco soundtrack by Andy G.

Courtesy Shout-outs: Tinykin, Metal Hellsinger
Best game from a previous year: Umineko When They Cry, God of War 3. Kirby’s Return to Dreamland.
Biggest Disappointment: Dying Light 2, Ghostwire Tokyo, Cardshark
Seems great: opening few hours of Marvel’s Midnight Suns
Not played: Chaos Gate, Weird West, Roadwarden, Pentiment
Matthew
10. The Centennial Case
9. Drainus
8. Prodeus
7. Marvel Snap
6. Elden Ring
5. The Case of the Golden Idol
4. Norco
3. Vampire Survivors
2. Signalis
1. Xenoblade Chronicles 3

Honourable Mentions: Nobody Saves the World, Kirby & the Forgotten Land, Expeditions Rome, God of War Ragnarok, Pentiment.
Samuel
10. Dorfromantik
9. The Stanley Parable: Ultra Deluxe
8. Arcade Paradise
7. Kirby & the Forgotten Land
6. Elden Ring
5. Norco
4. Vampire Survivors
3. Sifu
2. Cult of the Lamb
1. Tunic

Honourable Mentions: Signalis, Immortality, Windjammers 2, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder's Revenge, Dune: Spice Wars. And Me! Merry Xmas all!
PC Gaming Classics Episode 2: Blade Runner
In the second episode of Jeremy Peel and Phil Iwaniuk's Patreon-first miniseries on seminal '90s PC games, Westwood's Blade Runner adventure game comes under the spotlight. Vote for the winner of the Review Wars segment on Twitter this week – we'll post the poll today, December 19th.

Music in this episode comes from Blade Runner by composer/sound design genius Frank Klepacki.
Episode 108: The RPG Companions Draft
On this week's episode, we each try to assemble the 'dream' RPG party across 14 categories. Predictably, we each created nightmares instead. You can vote for the winner in our pinned tweet @BackPagePod on Twitter.
This week's music is from the Final Fantasy VIII soundtrack by Nobuo Uematsu.

Category
Samuel
Matthew
Warrior
Cassandra
(Dragon Age: Inquisition)
Chie
(Persona 4)
Black Mage
Vivi
(FFIX)
Nanba
(Yakuza: Like a Dragon)
White Mage
Yuna
(FFX)
Sharla
(Xenoblade Chronicles)
Support
Liara
(Mass Effect 1-3)
Taion
(Xenoblade Chronicles 3)
Tank
Auron
(FFX)
Dunban
(Xenoblade Chronicles)
Rogue
Varric
(Dragon Age 2 + Inquisition)
Imoen
(Baldur's Gate 1+2)
Good Hang
Nick Valentine
(Fallout 4)
Kim Kitsuragi
(Disco Elysium)
Bad Hang
Goofy
(Kingdom Hearts)
Tali
(Mass Effect 1-3)
Dies/can die
Thane
(Mass Effect 2)
Bob-omb
(Paper Mario: The Origami King)
Love Interest
Sorceress Edea
(FFVIII)
Keira Metz
(Witcher 3)
Animal sidekick or annoying child
Morgana
(Persona 5)
The Chocobo Chick
(FFXIII)
Villain or antihero with a heart of gold
HK-47
(KOTOR)
Vernon Roche
(The Witcher 2)
Inept party member you'd rather forget
Kimahri
(FFX)
Liam Kosta
(Mass Effect: Andromeda)
Wild Card
Democratus
(Anachronox)
Admiral Bobbery
(Paper Mario: The Thousand Year Door)


XL Episode 9: Best Videogame Levels Vol. 1
In this month's Patreon-exclusive XL episode, Matthew and Samuel each pick some of their favourite levels from across 10+ categories – including singleplayer FPS level, multiplayer map and a few other treats. Note that if we missed one of your favourites, we plan on revisiting this format again next year so we can tick off some more obvious ones.

Thanks to Liam Richardson for the edits – and to you, for your support!
The first level you remember experiencing as a kid and thinking, 'fuck yes this rules'
M: SMB2 beanstalk, Rescue Rangers telephone poles, Sonic 3 Angel Island
S: I'll explain why, but it goes: Casino Night Zone in Sonic 2, Facility in GoldenEye, D-Day (Operation Overlord) in Medal of Honor: Allied Assault
An immersive sim or stealth game level you love
M: Desperados 3: A Hell of a Night
S: Majestic 12 Base/UNATCO headquarters (4th visit).
A single player first-person shooter level you love
M: Half-Life Alex: Jeff level
S: The Maw, Halo: Combat Evolved.
A multiplayer first-person shooter map you love
M: cod mw Block
S: Facing Worlds in Unreal Tournament.
A platformer level you love
M: SMG2 Cloudy Court Galaxy
S: Misty Island in Jak and Daxter.
A location you love in an RPG
M: xenoblade 3 Aerithia Sea
S: Zanarkand in Final Fantasy X.
A novelty level you love from a game across any genre
M: Psychonauts 2, Compton’s Cook-Off
S: Ryan Amusements area, specifically the Rapture Memorial Museum from BioShock 2. 9-irony.
A hidden or secret level you love from any game
M: Super Smash Bros Melee. F-Zero GP Big Blue
S: Pitioss Dungeon. Red glowing demonic-feeling spikes, traps, pillars, statues - statues in the dark.
A hub/non-violent location in a game that's a good hang
M: Skyhold from Dragon Age
S: The Hanged Man in Dragon Age 2.
An open world you love
M: Witcher Blood and Wine, Toussaint
S: Bullworth Town from Bully. General town area and funfair, posh borough, industrial district, asylum, and the school itself is a massive space.
A good level from a bad game
M: Climbing the VNC Tower in Dying Light 2
S: Storming the Death Star at the end of Star Wars: The Force Unleashed - sort of parallels Return of the Jedi, Vader loses, so does Starkiller. Landed with me at the time. Weird game but almost felt like it earned its place as canon.
Episode 107: Leaving Games Media (with Andy Kelly)
Three-time special guest Andy Kelly is back to discuss his exit from games media after 18 years – and to share eight review scores he feels he got slightly wrong from his time working on PSM2/3, PC Gamer and The Gamer. Matthew and Samuel, meanwhile, shed some light on their own decisions to move on in years past.
Episode 106: 2022 Gaming Predictions Revisited
Did someone buy Capcom this year? Did Nightdive remaster the N64 South Park FPS? We revisit our 22 predictions from the start of the year to see just how wrong we were – though a couple did pay off. Enjoy this shorter episode, and have a lovely weekend.
XXL Episode 8: James Bond Movies Ranked
The podcast goes full Partridge in this ranking of all 25 existing James Bond movies. It's a long one, but if you have any opinion on these films, you'll probably enjoy this.

Thanks to Liam Richardson for the edits, as ever.

25. Diamonds are Forever
24. Octopussy
23. Die Another Day
22. For Your Eyes Only
21. A View To a Kill
20. Moonraker
19. The World is not Enough
18. The Man with a Golden Gun
17. Quantum of Solace
16. Spectre
15. Thunderball
14. Live and Let Die
13. The Living Daylights
12. Licence to Kill
11. Tomorrow Never Dies
10. No Time to Die
9. Dr No
8. You Only Live Twice
7. From Russia With Love
6. Goldfinger
5. On Her Majesty’s Secret Service
4. The Spy Who Loved Me
3. GoldenEye
2. Casino Royale
1. Skyfall
Episode 105: Two Giant Men Play God of War Ragnarök
Matthew and Samuel both played God of War Ragnarök. But Matthew actually finished it! Enjoy this almost entirely spoiler-free take on the year's big blockbuster. If you want to know nothing about Ragnarök, consider putting this one on hold – but it doesn't spoil anything more than a review would.
PC Gaming Classics Episode 1: System Shock 2
Phil Iwaniuk and Jeremy Peel co-host a new 6-episode monthly miniseries on classic '90s PC games, paid for by you, our Patreon supporters! We'll let you discover the format Phil and Jeremy have created as you dip into this first episode, which covers Irrational's classic sci-fi horror immersive sim System Shock 2.

This episode's music is from the System Shock 2 soundtrack by Josh Randall, Ramin Djawadi and Eric Brosius. Let us know what you think below, or in the Patreon channel on Discord! Plus, you can tell Jeremy directly @jeremy_peel on Twitter.
Episode 104: Cyberpunk 2077 Revisited
Samuel finally played Cyberpunk 2077 properly, and had a (mostly) good time! This episode interrogates CD Projekt RED's RPG/shooter, two years after release and firmly outside the shadow of the marketing campaign that made it such a headache to write about in the first place.

This week's music is from the Cyberpunk 2077 soundtrack by P. T. Adamczyk, Marcin Przybyłowicz and Paul Leonard-Morgan.
XL Episode 8: PS5 vs Xbox Series X Revisited
It had to happen eventually: a mediocre XL Tier episode. Look, we thought this would be more interesting than it actually was. But, we truly struggled through a fairly vanilla chat about two big electronic boxes under our TVs.

Still, bear with us! We'll get our shit together again for Bond movies ranked later this month. Thanks for your support. Also, sorry!

Thanks to Liam Richardson for the edits.
Episode 103: What We've Been Playing (November 2022)
A Plague Tale: Requiem, FF7 Remake, Stay Out Of The House and Taiji are among the games discussed in our first 'what we've been playing' episode in two months. Plus: 80 minutes of listener questions are answered, from the irrelevant to the insightful. Enjoy!

This week's music is from the Gradius Advance soundtrack by Shigemitsu Goto, Hirofumi Sano and Kaori Takazoe.

The Case of the Golden Idol
Stay Out of the House
Tajii
Gradius Advance
A Plague Tale: Requiem
Final Fantasy VII Remake Intergrade: EPISODE INTERmission (Yuffie DLC)
Episode 102: God of War Games Ranknarök
Ahead of the release of Ragnarök, we rank all the God of War games from 2005's original up to the 2018 PS4 entry – minus the odd Facebook game or mobile title. Enjoy. Once the new one drops, we'll discuss where it places in a future episode.

This week's music is from the God of War 2 soundtrack by Cris Velasco, Ron Fish, Gerard Marino and Mike Reagan.

7. God of War: Ascension
6. God of War: Ghost of Sparta
5. God of War: Chains of Olympus
4. God of War (2005)
*Update from Episode 122* God of War Ragnarök
3. God of War II
*Update from Episode 105* God of War Ragnarök
2. God of War III
1. God of War (2018)
XXL Episode 7: 20 Horror Movies We'd Recommend To Anyone
One day earlier than planned! Listen to two non-horror fans talk about horror movies for almost three hours! Just in time for Halloween, we discuss our respective histories with the horror genre and unleash a few of our favourites.

Thanks, as ever, to Liam Richardson for the edits.
Matthew's movies
 A Tale of Two Sisters
 The Devil's Backbone
 The Innocents
 The Orphanage
 The Call
 Relic
 Audition
 The Vanishing
 Final Destination 2
 Lake Mungo
Samuel's movies
 Saint Maud
 Host (2020)
 The Shining
 It Follows
 Ringu
 Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me
 Ghostwatch
 Pulse (2001)
 Don't Look Now
 Candyman (the good one)
Episode 101: Bayonetta 3
The wonderful 101st episode of The Back Page attempts to build a 5-game hall of fame from the entire PlatinumGames catalogue. Plus, Matthew has been reviewing Bayonetta 3 on Switch – hear his thoughts on the latest (but perhaps not greatest) entry in the hack-and-slash brawler series.
This week's music is from the Bayonetta 2 soundtrack by Norihiko Hibino, Takahiro Izutani, Masami Ueda, Hiroshi Yamaguchi, Rei Kondoh, Naofumi Harada, Satoshi Igarashi, Hitomi Kurokawa and Takayasu Sodeoka.

MadWorld - No
Infinite Space - Maybe
Bayonetta - Yes
Vanquish - Yes
Anarchy Reigns - No
Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance - No
The Wonderful 101 - Yes
Bayonetta 2 - No
The Legend of Korra - No
Transformers: Devastation - No
8-Bit Bayonetta - No
Star Fox Zero - No
Star Fox Guard - No
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutants in Manhattan - No
Nier: Automata - Yes
Astral Chain - Yes
World of Demons - No
Sol Cresta - No
Babylon’s Fall - No
Bayonetta 3 - No
Hall of Fame
Bayonetta
Vanquish
The Wonderful 101
Nier: Automata
Astral Chain
Episode 100: Clip Show
It's a clip show. Enjoy the clips.

Thanks so much for listening and supporting us. Here's to 100 more.
XL Episode 7: Top Zelda Moments (with Katharine Castle)
Returning to the subject of one of our most popular episodes, series expert Katharine Castle joins us to recount a whole host of great moments from The Legend of Zelda's history – with a little more love for the 2D Zeldas than we perhaps had in that last episode.

Thanks for your support, sorry for the slight wait while Matthew dealt with Covid, and enjoy another three hours of pod to kick off the week.

Coming back to Zelda II years later and finally getting through Valley Of Death, Great Palace, Thunderbird and Dark Link in one go - Zelda II: Adventure Of Link
Wait: there’s all those Dark World temples too?!? - Link to the Past
Eagles Tower (see also Crown Dungeon OoA) - Link’s Awakening
The ending where the island disappears - Link's Awakening
THIEF - Link's Awakening
Christine the Goat catfishing Mr Write (use as excuse to audit the memorable oddballs on the island) - Link's Awakening
Stepping into Hyrule field, etc, etc - Ocarina of Time
Getting Epona - Ocarina of Time
Bottom of the Well (Dead hand + redead fear) - Ocarina of Time
Aliens abducting the cows (and saving them while wearing the Garo Mask) - Majora's Mask
Swimming as Zora Link in Great Termina Bay - Majora's Mask
The weird stuff with the Deku Butler - end of Majora’s Mask
Sword and Shield dungeon - Oracle of Seasons
Puzzle density preempts Skyward Sword - Oracle of Ages
Zelda 2 temple stage is an absolute banger - Smash Bros Melee
Sneaking around Forsaken Fortress - Wind Waker
Hyrule frozen in time - Wind Waker
Owning an island, the Private Oasis - Wind Waker
Completing the Nintendo Gallery and making all the figurines - Wind Waker
Link being an absolute machine and definitely the best console exclusive - Soul Calibur II
Dual manta ray boss + Palace of Winds - Minish Cap
Double clawshot dungeon and the weird Oocca chicken people - Twilight Princess
Bow & arrow showdown in the weird western Hidden Village - Twilight Princess
Snowpeak Ruins: the creepy Yeti mansion - Twilight Princess
Link’s twisted nightmare vision - Twilight Princess
Deathsword - creepy miniboss of Arbiter's Grounds - Twilight Princess
Bridge of Eldin / King Bulblin (and Lord Bullbo) fight on horseback - Twilight Princess
The incredible rise of Malo Mart - Twilight Princess
Revisiting the ruins of the Temple Of Time - Twilight Princess
Related: discovering the ruins of other classic Zelda landmarks in BOTW ( Ranch, Mabe Village, etc) - Breath Of The Wild
Dual-screen hammer fight against Eox - Phantom Hourglass
Almost breaking my DS because I couldn't work out how to 'press the sacred crest against the sea chart' - Phantom Hourglass
A bad guy wears two top hats to cover up two devil horns - Spirit Tracks
Sand Wand (mainly in the sand temple) - Spirit Tracks
The zombie underbelly in Ancient Cistern (mention boss too) - Skyward Sword
Autotuning harp - Skyward Sword
Hyrule is almost named (bit Groose blows it) - Skyward Sword
Bamboo Cut minigame - Skyward Sword
Briefly mention other top minigames: Goron Racing, fishing
The Zelda anniversary concert
That weird island where you lose your equipment - Breath of the Wild
Beedle gets buff - Breath Of The Wild
Building Tarry Town (and Hudson and Rhondson's wedding) - Breath Of The Wild
Taming the Lord Of The Mountain (and trying to register them in a stable afterwards, also: Stalhorse, Bear, etc) - Breath Of The Wild
Zelda's struggles to unlock her sealing power, and subsequent awakening when Link biffs it - Breath Of The Wild
The existence of Hyrule Warriors and getting to kick ass as lots of different Zelda characters - Hyrule Warriors
Great Fairy in Age of Calamity
Episode 99: Best Visual Novels (with Lucy Blundell)
Indie developer Lucy Blundell (One Night Stand, the upcoming VIDEOVERSE) joins us to discuss one of Matthew's favourite genres: the (usually) non-horny visual novel.
This week's music is from the 428: Shibuya Scramble soundtrack by Naoki Sato and Hideki Sakamoto.
Lucy
5. Gnosia. (Shout out for me!)
4. Eliza
3. Shibuya Scramble
2. Mystic Messenger
1. Virtue’s Last Reward

Matthew
5. Ever 17: The Out of Infinity
4. Umineko When They Cry
3. Raging Loop
2. Steins Gate
1. Danganronpa

Best Gateway Game: Danganronpa or Ace Attorney if you want less anime bullshit
Best Stories: AI: The Somnium Files. Bury Me, My Love
Best Character: Karl Hyde. Nagito Komaeda from Danganronpa. Kazuma Asogii from Great Ace Attorney.
Worst: Toma from Amnesia: Memories. The entire Steins;Gate cast. Pearl Fey in Ace Attorney. In Umineko When They Cry the grating wailing child.
Most interactive. Danganronpa. AI: The Somnium Files. 13 Sentinels: Aegis Rim. Long Live The Queen
Best Epic to Lose Yourself in: The House in Fata Morgana
The Visual Novel That Best Respects Your Time. One Night Stand. Eliza. Overboard!
Episode 98: From MinnMax to Game Informer (with Ben Hanson)
We're joined by Ben Hanson of MinnMax on this episode, who shares a bunch of great stories from his many years making videos for Game Informer's elaborate cover features. Hear about the times he visited Kojima Productions and Square Enix, among other studios.

This week's music is from the Final Fantasy XV soundtrack by Yoko Shimomura.
Episode 97: Games Court – Judge Sammy's Garbage Barge
More listeners' pre-owned purchases go on trial this week, from classic JRPGs to a hilariously rough PS3-era shooter – and a grim fate awaits anyone who gets on the wrong side of Judge Big Sammy.
Apologies in advance if you hate Games Court.
Doom anecdote.
XXL Episode 6: Star Wars Movies Ranked (or, Star Wars: Good or Bad?)
Thanks for supporting us! This month in our pop culture-focused series of podcasts, just for XL Tier Patrons, we're ranking the Star Wars movies. Apologies in advance for the mountain of bad takes you're about to endure across 2.5 hours.

See you next month for our favourite horror movies!

11. Episode II – Attack of the Clones
10. Episode I – The Phantom Menace
9. Episode IX – The Rise of Skywalker
8. Episode III – Revenge of the Sith
7. Solo
6. Rogue One
5. Episode VI – Return of the Jedi
4. Episode VII – The Force Awakens
3. Episode IV – A New Hope
2. Episode VIII – The Last Jedi
1. Episode V – The Empire Strikes Back
Episode 96: GTA Clones on Trial
From The Getaway to Sleeping Dogs, this week Judge Matthew Castle puts the open world games that followed in GTA 3's wake on trial. Jeremy Peel returns to help make the cast for Driv3r, among other games.

This week's music is from the Driv3r soundtrack by Marc Canham.

Mafia - Not Guilty
The Getaway and The Getaway: Black Monday - Guilty
The Getaway and The Getaway: Black Monday - Not Guilty
True Crime: Streets of LA - Guilty
Jak II - Guilty
DRIV3R - Not Guilty
Tony Hawk's Underground - Guilty
Total Overdose: A Gunslinger's Tale in Mexico and Chili Con Carnage - Not Guilty
The Godfather and The Godfather II - Guilty
Scarface: The World Is Yours -  Guilty
Saints Row (series) - Not Guilty
Just Cause (series) - Guilty
Crackdown (series) - Not Guilty
[PROTOTYPE] and [PROTOTYPE2] - Guilty
Sleeping Dogs) - Not Guilty
Dead Rising 3 - Not Guilty
WATCH_DOGS (series) - Not Guilty
Episode 95: The Lucasarts Adventure Games Hall of Fame (with Ashley Day)
From Monkey Island to Full Throttle, we try to boil down the complete library of Lucasarts adventure games into five representative titles – building a hall of fame, the concept of which we stole from a film podcast we like. Former GamesTM editor Ashley Day joins us for this one. Note that our originally scheduled episode, GTA clones on trial, is now coming next week.

This week's music is from The Secret of Monkey Island soundtrack by Michael Land and Patrick Mundy.
LucasArts adventure games
Labyrinth - No
Maniac Mansion - Maybe
Zak McKracken and the Alien Mindbenders - No
Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade - No
Loom - Ass? Play Amiga / EGA not Steam - Maybe
The Secret of Monkey Island - Yes
Monkey Island 2 - Yes
Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis - Great but Not Sure. Maybe
Day of the Tentacle - Yes
Sam & Max Hit the Road - Yes/No/Maybe
Full Throttle - No
The Dig - No
The Curse of Monkey Island - Yes
Grim Fandango - Yes
Escape from Monkey Island - No
Hall of Fame
The Secret of Monkey Island
Monkey Island 2
Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis
Day of the Tentacle including Maniac Mansion
Grim Fandango
XL Episode 6: Best 7/10 Games
What makes a true 7/10 game? Is it a diamond in the rough, rife with enough offbeat personality that it wedges itself into your brain for years to come? Or is it closer to a licensed game made by Acclaim in the '90s?  In this episode, we boil down the idea of what a 7/10 game is, making it far more confusing than it really should be. Then, we'll fire through some of our own favourite 7/10s in the second half.

Thanks, as ever, for your support!
Matthew's games
Stranglehold (one of the greatest game demos of all time)
Cold Winter (it’s Black, if Black was fun)
Castlevania 64
Time Hollow (with a bit on Shadows of Memories)
Pandora’s Tower (Wii/Wii U VC)
The Council
Red Dead Revolver (shout out to Call of Juarez: Gunslinger)
Asura's Wrath
Honourable mentions: Prototype, Sonic Lost World, Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: The Crystal Bearers, Kingdoms Of Amalur, Nier 1, Dying Light 1, The Surge games, Sherlock Holmes
Samuel's games
Is Shadow Man the original 7/10?
Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine
007 Nightfire
The entire Resistance and Killzone franchises
Onimusha Warlords and 3 but not 2
The Darkness 2 but not 1
The Saboteur
Mad Max/Just Cause. Avalanche are the patron saints of the 7/10
Red Faction Guerrilla
Shadow of Mordor
Singularity
Episode 94: Splatoon 3 + Nintendo's Newer Series Explained
Matthew talks us through his many hours agonising over a Splatoon 3 review in this week's episode, which features a detailed breakdown of what's new (or not) in Nintendo's latest online shooter. Plus, we break down key examples of new Nintendo series from the past year and explain what they represent in the overall breadth of its output.

This week's music is from Bayonetta 2.
Episode 93: What We've Been Playing (September 2022)
Saints Row, Arcade Paradise, Ryse: Son of Rome, Splatoon 3, Star Wars: Rogue Squadron and Escape Academy are the games discussed in this month's episode. Plus: we try and clear a mountain of your listener questions with increasing weariness.

This week's music is from the Rogue Squadron soundtrack by Chris Hulsbeck.

Saints Row
Arcade Paradise
As Dusk Falls
Symphony of War: The Nephilim Saga
Splatoon 3
Star Wars: Rogue Squadron
Escape Academy
Ryse: Son of Rome
XXL Episode 5: 20 Thriller Movies We'd Recommend To Anyone
This month's XXL episode covers thriller movies – everything from Blow Out to Christopher Nolan's Insomnia gets a namecheck in this genre-centric episode. We hope you're enjoying our pop culture-themed XXL episodes. See you next month, and thanks for your support!

Insomnia
Blow Out (& Da Palma, Body Double)
Wild Tales
Rear Window (& The Simpsons, The Voyeurs)
Intacto
The Fugitive (& Wrongfully Accused)
Infernal Affairs
Uncut Gems
Good Time
The Spanish Prisoner (& House of Games, Glengarry Glen Ross)
Timecrimes (& Triangle)
Chaser (& The Wailing, The Yellow Sea)
A Simple Plan (& Drag Me To Hell, The Quick and the Dead)
The Last of Sheila
No Way Out
Inside Man
Zodiac
Unbreakable
Memories of Murder
The Dead Zone
Episode 92: The 2000-2005 PC Gaming Draft
It's draft revenge time! Who can pick the 10 best games released during the years 2000-2005? Vote for the winner @backpagepod on Twitter in the pinned tweet. We'll update this episode description when a winner has been declared.

This week's music is from the Command & Conquer: Red Alert 2 soundtrack by Frank Klepacki.
Draft Order
S FPS 1 Half-Life 2
M RPG Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn + Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal
M Free Pick Star Wars Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast
S Strategy Command & Conquer: Red Alert 2 + Command & Conquer: Yuri's Revenge
S Immersive Sim Deus Ex
M FPS 1 F.E.A.R.
M 90%+ from PC Gamer Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne
S FPS 2 Call of Duty 2
S RPG Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic
M 4X game, God game or Sim Black & White
M Online game Return to Castle Wolfenstein
S Free Pick Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War + Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War – Winter Assault
S Online game Star Wars Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy
M Strategy Freedom Force
M Immersive Sim Thief II: The Metal Age
S Wild Card Anachronox
S 4X game, God game or Sim RollerCoaster Tycoon 3
M FPS 2 No One Lives Forever 2: A Spy in H.A.R.M.'s Way
M Wild Card Uplink
S 90%+ from PC Gamer Max Payne
Results
Category
Samuel's picks
Matthew's picks
FPS 1
Half-Life 2
F.E.A.R.
FPS 2
Call of Duty 2
No One Lives Forever 2: A Spy in H.A.R.M.'s Way
4X game, God game or Sim
RollerCoaster Tycoon 3
Black & White
Online game
Star Wars Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy
Return to Castle Wolfenstein
Strategy
Command & Conquer: Red Alert 2 + Command & Conquer: Yuri's Revenge
Freedom Force
RPG
Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic
Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn + Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal
Immersive Sim
Deus Ex
Thief II: The Metal Age
90%+ from PC Gamer
Max Payne
Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne (Disqualified)
Wild Card
Anachronox
Uplink
Free Pick
Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War + Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War – Winter Assault
Star Wars Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast


Episode 91: From Edge to Hit Points (with Nathan Brown)
This week's guest is former Edge editor Nathan Brown, who now runs the newsletter Hit Points (support his Substack at hitpoints.substack.com). Hear what goes into an Edge [10], as well as thoughts on Destiny, E3, Street Fighter and the world of videogame consulting.

This week's music is from the Destiny soundtrack by Marty O'Donnell and Michael Salvatori and the Street Fighter II soundtrack by Yoko Shimomura and Isao Abe.
Episode 90: The '90s Games Mag Quiz and Mailbag
Samuel and Matthew ask each other to guess the game based on quotes taken from '90s games magazines – then answer a whole suite of listener questions in part two.

This week's music is from Final Fantasy VIII, composed by Nobuo Uematsu.
XL Episode 5: The Hitman Re-Ranking
In this month's Patreon exclusive episode, we rank all 22 levels in the Hitman World of Assassination Trilogy – including the newest addition, Ambrose Island. Also: hear Matthew and Samuel's deeply cursed pitches for level ideas in Hitman 4, which radiates Games Court energy. Thank you for your support in making this happen!

22. Carpathian mountains (Untouchable, H3)
21. Colorado (Freedom Fighters, H1)
20. Hawke’s Bay (Nightcall, H2)
19. Chongqing (End of an Era, H2)
18. ICA Facility (Arrival, Guided Training, Freeform Training, The Final Test, H1)
17. Marrakesh (A Gilded Cage, H1)
16. Santa Fortuna (Three-Headed Serpent, H2)
15. Ambrose Island (Shadows in the Water, H3 DLC)
14. Dubai (On Top of the World, H3)
13. Bangkok (Club 27, H1)
12. Berlin (Apex Predator, H3)
11. New York (Golden Handshake, H2 DLC
10. Whittleton Creek (Another Life, H2)
9. Isle of Sgàil (The Ark Society, H2)
8. Dartmoor (Death in the Family, H3)
7. Haven Island (The Last Resort, H2 DLC)
6. Mumbai (Chasing a Ghost, H2)
5. Mendoza (The Farewell H3)
4. Sapienza (World of Tomorrow, H1)
3. Hokkaido (Situs Inversus, H1)
2. Miami (The Finish Line, H2)
1. Paris (The Showstopper, H1)
Episode 89: Steam Deck Special
Is Valve's handheld PC all it's cracked up to be? Yes! In this episode we celebrate its strengths, highlight its limitations and discuss the games we've been playing on it.

This week's music is all from our theme tune's composer, Barry Topping (@nostoppingepoch).
Episode 88: Xenoblade Chronicles Special
Slightly later than usual, RockPaperShotgun EIC Katharine Castle rejoins us to discuss the Xenoblade Chronicles series in enormous detail. Hear Matthew's thoughts on Xenoblade Chronicles 3 after 140 hours of playing it, and enjoy a great new quiz known as 'Xenoblade ingredient or '90s drug slang?'.

This week's music is from the Xenoblade Chronicles 2 soundtrack by Kenji Hiramatsu and the Xenoblade Chronicles X soundtrack by Hiroyuki Sawano
XXL Episode 4: Best TV Shows of the Century (Part 2)
Two more top 10 lists of the best TV shows of the century, along with a fun first section where we each ask the other 10 random questions about TV, including 'who's the best TV dad?'
The shows:
Samuel's shows
Band of Brothers
Barry
American Vandal
Chernobyl
Veronica Mars
American Crime Story
True Detective
Inside No. 9
Twin Peaks: The Return
Top of the Lake
Matthew's Shows
Station Eleven
The Night Manager
Tom Goes To The Mayor
Squid Game
Spartacus
The Bridge
The Good Wife
Terrace House
State of Play
Happy Valley
Chernobyl 2 tweet: https://twitter.com/wills_account/status/1147728799074672640?
Episode 87: The Best Games of 2013
Two top 10 lists of the best games of 2013, in our usual style. Don't miss our episodes on the best games of 2006-2012 if you haven't heard them already. We'll post the full list here when you've had the chance to listen.
This week's music is from the Grand Theft Auto V soundtrack by Tangerine Dream and Woody Jackson, and crikey, what a banging piece of music 'No Happy Endings' is.
Samuel
Grand Theft Auto V
BioShock Infinite
Super Mario 3D World
XCOM: Enemy Within
DmC: Devil May Cry
Tomb Raider (2013)
The Last of Us
The Stanley Parable
Metro: Last Light
Gone Home / Injustice: Gods Among Us
Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance, Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons, Earthbound
Matthew
 Grand Theft Auto V
The Wonderful 101
Rayman Legends
Pikmin 3
Super Mario 3D World
Fire Emblem Awakening
Luigi’s Mansion 2
The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds
Lego City Undercover
Attack of the Friday Monsters! A Tokyo Tale
Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag, The Wolf Among Us Episode 1
Episode 86: The Nintendo Switch Games Hall of Fame Vol. 1
We undertake another grand project: building a library of the very best games for the Nintendo Switch, starting with 5 (technically 6) of our absolute favourites. Want to know what those are? Listen to the episode, or find the games we discussed in this episode below...

Ready?

Spoilers!

Here we go...

Super Mario Odyssey
Metroid Dread
Astral Chain
Into the Breach
Ori and the Blind Forest/Ori and the Will of the Wisps.

This week's music is from the Super Mario Odyssey soundtrack by Naoto Kubo, Shiho Fujii and Koji Kondo.
XL Episode 4: Top 25 Metal Gear Solid Moments (with Rich Stanton)
PC Gamer's Rich Stanton joins us to deliver a comprehensive view of the Metal Gear Solid series, picking out 25 key moments from across the games and the series' spin-offs. You won't be disappointed if you're a fan of the series.

This week's music is from the Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater soundtrack by Norihiko Hibino and Cynthia Harrell

Gray Fox reveal/corridor of dead guys (MGS)
They're already inside the lift with you (MGS)
Psycho Mantis (MGS)
Fighting Metal Gear, death of Gray Fox, beating up Liquid (MGS)
Fatman boss fight (MGS2)
'The Colonel' loses his shit (MGS2)
Opening credits - that great Bond pastiche (MGS3)
Young Ocelot juggles his guns, is a total dick (MGS3)
Time Paradox (MGS3)
The End boss fight (MGS3)
Death of The Boss (MGS3)
The future of war - intro (MGS4)
Octocamo (MGS4)
Return to Shadow Moses (MGS4)
Ray versus Rex, Raiden vs Vamp, and a general appreciation for the choreography (MGS4)
MGS4's ending (MGS4)
The Peace Walker has the Boss's voice and 'personality' (MGS: Peace Walker)
Developing Sony product lines at Mother Base / PSP-Sony integration more widely as a theme (MGS: Peace Walker)
The first time you fulton someone (MGS: Peace Walker)
Raiden hacks up Metal Gear Ray (Revengeance)
'Here's to you' opening (MGSV: Ground Zeroes)
Giving Quiet a kill order (MGSV: TPP)
Killing your own crew (MGSV: TPP)
'Snake' is the Medic / The Snake eats its own tail (MGSV: TPP)
Seeing where it all began with hindsight (Metal Gear, Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake)
Episode 85: What We've Been Playing (July 2022)
Xenoblade Chronicles 3, Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity, Sniper Elite 5 and TMNT: Shredder's Revenge are discussed in this round-up of games we've been playing this month.

Our theme tune, which plays in full this week at the very end, is from Barry Topping as ever.

Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity
Xenoblade Chronicles 3 VGC preview
TMNT: Shredder's Revenge
Card Shark
Hotline Miami 2
Red Faction Guerilla
Sniper Elite 5
God of War II
Poinpy
Episode 84: Games Court Returns!
More listeners go on trial for bad pre-owned games purchases – this time with Judge Big Sammy making the verdicts. As ever, games court delivers zero nutritional value, but we have some laughs along the way.
XXL Episode 3: Best TV Shows of the Century
Two top 10 lists of the best TV shows made since the year 2000 – and much more besides. Check out the full list below when you've listened to the episode, just below the picture of Larry. We're going to make another episode on another 10 great shows for next month's XXL episode!
The canonical five modern classics:
Mad Men
The Wire
Breaking Bad/Better Call Saul
Curb Your Enthusiasm
Succession
Matthew
Deadwood
Dark
Spiral
The US Office
Line of Duty (1-4)
The Shield
Halt and Catch Fire
Documental
Borgen
Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood
Samuel
The Leftovers
Watchmen
The Trip
Hannibal
Community
The Thick of It
Battlestar Galactica
Mindhunter
Sharp Objects
Rick and Morty
Episode 83: Why Destiny is Good (with Phil Savage)
PC Gamer's Phil Savage rejoins us for an episode all about Bungie's Destiny. Hate Destiny? Fair enough! You may still enjoy the first 24 minutes of this podcast for general games chatter. For Destiny players, prepare for two hours of chatter from a genuine expert that goes deep into the series' history – including the top 5 Destiny 2 guns, and the top 5 things to do in the game.
Top Things To Do
5. Gambit
4. Lake of Shadows Grandmaster Nightfall
3. Prophecy
2. The Witch Queen’s Legendary Campaign
1.  The Last Wish
Top Guns
Recluse
Under Your Skin
With a Horde
Fate Bringer
Storm Chaser
Izanagi’s Burden
Episode 82: Top 10 Most Anticipated Games (with Jeremy Peel)
Matthew is away this week! Returning guest Jeremy Peel kindly steps in to replace him, as we count down our 10 personal most anticipated games, based on whatever E3 was this year – from Redfall to Final Fantasy 16.
Jeremy
10. Thirsty Suitors
9. System Shock
8. Saints Row
7. Metal: Hellsinger
6. Minecraft Legends
5. Marvel’s Midnight Suns
4. A Plague Tale: Requiem
3. Project Golden Nekker
2. Redfall
1. Baldur's Gate 3
Samuel
10. Resident Evil 4 Remake
9. Flintlock: The Siege of Dawn
8. Persona 3 Portable
7. Warhammer 40,000: Rogue Trader
6. Bayonetta 3
5. Terra Nil
4. System Shock
3. Pentiment
2. Warhammer 40,000: Darktide
1. Final Fantasy XVI
XL Episode 3: Best and Worst E3 Moments
Matthew and Samuel each recall their 5 best and worst E3 moments, from Twilight Princess's debut at E3 2004 to a preposterous Duke Nukem trailer that Samuel can never forget. Thanks again for your support!
Episode 81: The '90s PC Games Draft
Samuel and Matthew each compete to pick the 10 best PC games released in the years 1990 to 1999 – and you can vote for the winner @backpagepod on Twitter in our pinned tweet. This week's music is from the Command & Conquer: Red Alert soundtrack by Frank Klepacki
Categories
'90s PC gaming draft
1. FPS 1
2. FPS 2
3. God game or city builder
4. Sim
5. Strategy
6. RPG
7. Point and Click/adventure game
8. 90%+ from PC Gamer
9. Wild card
10. Free pick
Draft Order
S RPG Baldur’s Gate
M FPS Half-Life
M Sim Star Wars: TIE Fighter
S Point and Click Grim Fandango
S Strategy Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings
M FPS Thief Gold
M RPG Planescape: Torment
S FPS System Shock 2
S God Game or City Builder RollerCoaster Tycoon
M 90% PCG Blade Runner
M Strategy Command & Conquer: Red Alert
S Strategy Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri
S FPS2 Dark Forces 2 Jedi Knight
M God Game Dungeon Keeper
M point and click Gabriel Knight 2
S wildcard free space 2
S free pick StarCraft
M free pick Curse of Monkey Island
M wildcard Jurassic Park Trespasser
S Sim X-Wing Alliance
Results
Category
Samuel's picks
Matthew's picks
FPS 1
System Shock 2
Half-Life
FPS 2
Dark Forces 2: Jedi Knight
Thief Gold
God Game or City Builder
Rollercoaster Tycoon
Dungeon Keeper
Sim
X-Wing Alliance
TIE Fighter
Strategy
Age of Empires 2: Age of Kings
Command & Conquer: Red Alert
RPG
Baldur's Gate
Planescape: Torment
Point and Click / Adventure Game
Grim Fandango
Gabriel Knight 2
90%+ from PC Gamer
Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri
Blade Runner
Wild Card
FreeSpace 2
Trespasser
Free Pick
StarCraft
The Curse of Monkey Island


Episode 80: Top 5 Dreamcast games (with Andy Kelly)
Returning guest Andy Kelly joins us to discuss his love of Sega's Dreamcast, and his new Alien: Isolation book, Perfect Organism, which you can back on Unbound: https://unbound.com/books/perfect-organism/ This week's music is from the Shenmue soundtrack by Takenobu Mitsuyoshi and Yuzo Koshiro.
Episode 79: What We've Been Playing (May 2022)
The Centennial Case, Tunic, Gears Tactics, Eternal Threads and Little Cities are among the games we discuss in this week's episode, which was painfully recorded across three evenings. This week's music is from The Centennial Case soundtrack by Yuki Hayashi.
XXL Episode 2: Marvel Cinematic Universe Movies Ranked
28 Marvel movies ranked! In this Patreon exclusive episode, we audit the entire Marvel Cinematic Universe (minus What If? and the Netflix/ABC shows) and put these superhero movies into some kind of quality order – apologies in advance for our takes in this one.
Episode 78: From OPSM2 to PC Gamer (with Tim Clark)
This week's guest is Tim Clark, brand director of PC Gamer with a long history of working on the official PlayStation magazines. Get ready for another top-drawer story about Hideo Kojima, among many other tales from games media history. This week's music is from the Killer7 soundtrack by Masafumi Takada.
Episode 77: Best Star Wars Guilty Pleasure Games
In this week's episode, Samuel catalogues the Star Wars games that exist between simple notions like light and dark – these are the 6 and 7/10 Star Wars games that are nonetheless interesting in a bunch of ways. A full best Star Wars games episode is coming later this year, so look forward to that. This week's music is from the Star Wars: The Force Unleashed soundtrack by Mark Griskey.

The Force Unleashed (a lavish but clumsy attempt at making a Star Wars God of War with wacky physics - Havok, Euphoria, DMM)
The Force Unleashed 2 (an even worse and shorter version of the above)
Galactic Battlegrounds (be careful what you wish for when you ask for Star Wars Age of Empires)
Racer Revenge (pod racing with episode 2 Anakin - just a touch worse than the original in every way)
Jedi Starfighter ("we've got Rogue Leader on PS2 at home")
Rebel Assault 2 (naff FMV games but original Star Wars content in a deprived mid-'90s)
Shadows of the Empire (a third-person shooter bookended with minigames - and a wider multimedia project)
Battlefront 2 - the EA one (campaign doesn't do what they said it would and not a great online shooter, but a lovely bit of Star Wars to dip into)
Battle For Naboo (in the Rogue Squadron template but not quite as good - ground sections and Episode I settings make it a tougher sell)
Rogue Leader 2: Rebel Strike (great spaceship bits cancelled out by rancid on-foot sections)
XL Episode 2: 20 Xbox Backwards Compatible Games Worth Revisiting
Samuel discusses 20 old Xbox games he's enjoyed revisiting on Xbox Series X via backwards compatibility, from Assassin's Creed Unity to Ninja Gaiden Black. Before that, hear our thoughts on the strengths and limitations of official emulation, and why it'll likely never get better than what Microsoft has achieved on its own hardware.

This week's music is from the Mercenaries 2: World in Flames soundtrack by Peter Stormare and the Wojahn Brothers (Samuel was wrong, this isn't Peter Stormare's band, but the full track is worth a listen).
Episode 76: From Edge to Media Molecule (with Jen Simpkins)
Former Edge editor Jen Simpkins joins us to discuss some highlights of her years working in games media, and how she ended up working with the bright minds of the Dreams community at Media Molecule. Find the Playdate drawing Jen mentioned attached to the corresponding episode post on Patreon. Looksley's Line-Up is the DSi game mentioned early in the episode. Find the GameDeveloper.com article Jen mentioned here: https://www.gamedeveloper.com/marketing/ad-infinitum-handling-community-curation-on-a-cosmic-scale-in-dreams This week's music is from the Persona 5 soundtrack by Shoji Meguro.

Jen’s Dreams playlist for listeners: https://indreams.me/collection/coRPbcmuNTv
or search 'Back Page Pod' in-game

PlayDate sketch https://twitter.com/BackPagePod/status/1522500780510650370
Episode 75: Oh No, Another Mailbag (And Matthew Finishes Horizon Forbidden West)
It's another mailbag episode, with about 20 minutes of what we've been playing at the start as a chaser. It's probably too long, yet again, but it covers everything from our favourite TV genres to trends in games that we miss. Enjoy! One factual error in this episode: Sunset Overdrive was released in 2014 rather than 2015. Our theme tune is by Barry 'Epoch' Topping (@nostoppingepoch on Twitter).
XXL Episode 1: Japanese Crime Fiction – A 101
Matthew offers a beginner's guide to one of his enduring obsessions: Japanese crime fiction. Get a full primer on the history of a broad sub-genre from a genuine expert.

Books mentioned in this episode:
Murder in the Crooked House and The Tokyo Zodiac Murders by Soji Shimada.
The Honjin Murders by Seishi Yokomizo.

If you like Danganronpa you’ll like…
- Death Amongst The Undead - Masahiro Imamura
- Devotion of Suspect X or Malice - Keigo Higashino

If you like Ace Attorney you’ll like…
- The 8 Mansion Murders - Takemaru Akibo

If you like Hotel Dusk you’ll like…
- Inspector Imanishi Investigates - Seicho Matsumoto
- Cop's Eyes - Gaku Yakumaru
- Newcomer - Keigo Higashino

If you like Yakuza you’ll like…
- The Cage - Kenzo Kitakata
- Shinjuku Shark - Arimasa Osawa

If you like Judgement, you’ll like…
- Pro Bono - Seicho Matsumoto
- Or check out the film The Third Murder

If you like Sam Barlow games you’ll like…
- Penance - Kanae Minato
- Confessions - Kanae Minato

If you like Famicom Detective Club you'll like…
- Murder at Mt Fuji - Shizuko Natsuki
- The Inagumi Curse - Seishi Yokomizo

Other books:
- Out - Natsuo Kirino
- Six Four/Seventeen - Hideo Yokoyama
- Bullet Train - Kotaro Isaka
- The Master Key - Masako Togawa
- Malice - Keigo Higashino
- Ellery Queen's Japanese Mystery Stories
Episode 74: Max Payne 1-3 Revisited
On this week's episode, we revisit all three Max Payne games. Section 1 is about Remedy's creation of the third-person shooter series that popularised bullet time, while section 2 covers Rockstar's effort to contemporise the character in Max Payne 3. Hopefully you'll agree we do Max justice. Then, the final section has to be heard to be believed. This week's music is from the Max Payne soundtrack by Kärtsy Hatakka and Kimmo Kajasto, and the Max Payne 3 soundtrack by HEALTH.
Episode 73: The Indie Games Hall of Fame Vol. 2 (with Joe Skrebels)
IGN's Joe Skrebels joins us for another round of indie game recommendations – and 20 minutes of very welcome Dragon's Dogma chat. 15 more games enter our hall of fame in this episode. Hopefully you'll hear about something you've never played before. This week's music is from the Thumper soundtrack by Brian Gibson. Our theme tune is by Barry 'Epoch' Topping.
Joe Skrebels
Affordable Space Adventures
Vampire Survivors
Towerfall: Ascension
Sorcery!
Thumper
Matthew
Hand of Fate 2
The Darkside Detective
Device 6
2000:1 A Space Felony
Unheard
Samuel
The Stanley Parable
The Sexy Brutale
Gorogoa
House of the Dying Sun
OlliOlli and OlliOlli 2: Welcome To Olliwood
Episode 72: The Best Games of 2012
Two top 10 lists of the best games of 2012, in our usual style. Love the podcast and want more? Head to patreon.com/backpagepod to unlock two additional episodes a month. This week's music is from the Catherine soundtrack by Shoji Meguro, and the Kid Icarus: Uprising soundtrack by Motoi Sakuraba, Yuzo Koshiro, Masafumi Takada, Noriyuki Iwadare, Yasunori Mitsuda and Takahiro Nishi. Our theme tune is by Barry 'Epoch' Topping.
Samuel
10. Sleeping Dogs
9. Catherine
8. Lollipop Chainsaw
7. Spec Ops: The Line
6. FTL: Faster than Light
5. The Walking Dead: Season 1
4. Mass Effect 3
3. Hotline Miami
2. XCOM: Enemy Unknown
1. Dishonored
Honourable mentions
The Darkness 2
Max Payne 3
Halo 4
Lego The Lord of the Rings
Alan Wake's American Nightmare
Dear Esther
Lone Survivor
Dragon's Dogma
Matthew
10. Resident Evil 6
9. Nintendoland
8. Fluidity: Spin Cycle
7. Fez
6. The Walking Dead: Season 1
5. Binary Domain
4. Dishonored
3. Beat the Beat: Rhythm Paradise
2. Zero Escape: Virtue's Last Reward
1. Kid Icarus: Uprising
Honourable mentions
The Last Story
Crimson Shroud
Hitman Absolution
XL Episode 1: Best Boss Battles
The first in our new monthly series of bonus episodes is here, just for you lovely XL Tier backers! Listen to our take on the best boss battles from the games we love, as we dig in to what makes a classic encounter with a boss. Everything from Metal Gear Solid to Final Fantasy VIII comes up in this chunky episode. Thanks for your support in making this happen!
Samuel's best boss battles
Owl (Father) - Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice
The End (Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater)
Calus (Destiny 2 Leviathan Raid)
Ultima Weapon (Final Fantasy VIII)
Phalanx (Shadow of the Colossus)
Matthew's best boss battles
Puppet Ganon + Ganondorf (2 phase fight) - The Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker
Knucklotec - Super Mario Odyssey
Masked Lumen Sage - Bayonetta 2
Seven Force - Gunstar Heroes
Jergingha - The Wonderful 101
[21:53]
Honourable mentions
Mr Freeze in Arkham Knight
Sephiroth in Kingdom Hearts
Anubis in Zone of the Enders: The 2nd Runner
Andross (True Form) in Starfox 64
Isshin in Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice
Dark Aeons in Final Fantasy X
Fighting the community manager - Sunset Overdrive DLC
Whistling boss - Horizon Forbidden West
Ustanak - Resident Evil 6
Nemesis - Resident Evil 3 Remake (good end fights)
The Stranger - God of War (2018)
The Mole - Judgement
Episode 71: The Best Kirby Games
The top 5 Kirby games, and detailed thoughts on Kirby and the Forgotten Land for Nintendo Switch. Enjoy! This week's music is from the Kirby and the Forgotten Land soundtrack by Yuuta Ogasawara, Hirokazu Ando, Jun Ishikawa and Yuki Shimooka, and the Kirby's Epic Yarn soundtrack by Tomoya Tomita. Our theme tune is by Barry 'Epoch' Topping (@nostoppingepoch).
Episode 70: Ghostwire: Tokyo, New Kirby, Tunic and More Games We've Been Playing
It's a simple 'what we've been playing' episode, featuring Ghostwire: Tokyo, Kirby and the Forgotten Land, Tunic, Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy and Monster Train – not to mention a ton of listener questions about random nonsense. This week's music is from the Tunic soundtrack by Terence Lee and Janice Kwan, and our excellent theme tune is by Barry 'Epoch' Topping (@NoStoppingEpoch on Twitter).
Episode 69: The PS Vita Draft
Who can pick the 10 best PS Vita games in our latest draft episode? And who will pick the best PSone and PSP games to supplement their selections? Matthew and Samuel compete to build the best library for Sony's fan-favourite handheld device. This week's music is from Hotline Miami by Scattle, and our theme tune is by Barry 'Epoch' Topping.
Matthew
TxK
Gravity Rush
Persona 4: Golden
Final Fantasy X/X-2 HD
Persona 4: Dancing All Night
Hotline Miami
Lumines Electronic Symphony
Nidhogg
Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc
Zero Escape: The Nonary Games
Samuel
Uncharted: Golden Abyss
WipeOut 2048
Tearaway
Metal Gear Solid: HD Collection
Odin Sphere: Leifthrasir
Spelunky
Sound Shapes
Ultimate Marvel Vs Capcom 3
The Unfinished Swan
XCOM Enemy Unknown
PSP/PSone Bonus Categories
Persona 3: Portable
Final Fantasy IV: Complete Edition
Killzone Liberation
Resident Evil 2
LocoRoco 2
Final Fantasy Tactics: The War of the Lions
R-Type Delta
Metal Gear Solid
Castlevania: Symphony of the Night
Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker
Episode 68: Bad eBay Games Court 2022
Judge Castle returns to decide whether 18 or so listeners must die as a result of dodgy secondhand eBay purchases. This episode is slightly too long, but hopefully you'll be amused. This week's music comes from Barry Topping, composer on the brilliant Paradise Killer — it's our brand new theme tune!
Episode 67: Two Giant Men Play Elden Ring
Samuel and Matthew have played Elden Ring for a combined 37 hours – here's what they think so far. This week's music is from the Elden Ring soundtrack by Yuka Kitamura.
Episode 66: Uncharted Games (and the Mediocre Movie)
Matthew's seen the Uncharted movie, which is a nice excuse for a deep dive into one of our favourite PlayStation series. This week's music is from the Uncharted 4: A Thief's End soundtrack by Henry Jackman, and the Uncharted 1-3 soundtracks by Greg Edmonson.

Cursed ice cream boy:  https://twitter.com/BackPagePod/status/1497194673227636739
Episode 65: Xbox Through The Years (with Jon Hicks)
Jon Hicks, formerly of Official Xbox Magazine, joins us to revisit the 360 era through his experiences of the time. This week's music is from the Halo: Reach soundtrack by Michael Salvatori and Marty O'Donnell.
Episode 64: The Game Pass Competitor Draft
Matthew Castle Productions and Big Sammy Holdings are each taking on Game Pass. Who built the best gaming subscription service? Matthew won this one. This week's music is from the Snatcher soundtrack by Konami Kukeiha Club, The Sims 4 soundtrack by Ilan Eshkeri and the Kid Icarus: Uprising soundtrack by Motoi Sakuraba, Yuzo Koshiro, Masafumi Takada, Noriyuki Iwadare, Yasunori Mitsuda and Takahiro Nishi.
//TBD someone sort this out
Samuel's picks
Matthew's picks
Snatcher
428 Shibuya Scramble
Star Wars: Rogue Leader
Spider-Man
Final Fantasy XIV
The Sims 4
Half-Life: Alyx
Breath of the Wild
Crisis Core: FF7
Kid Icarus: Uprising
Sonic Mania
Sayonara Wild Hearts
Breath of the Wild 2*
Grand Theft Auto VI
Silent Hills
Project Ragtag
Zelda
Mario
PS2
Xbox 360
Episode 63: What We've Been Playing (February 2022)
Dying Light 2, Windjammers 2, Resident Evil 4 VR, NEO: The World Ends With You and more are discussed in this episode about what we've been playing in 2022 so far. This week's music is from the Unpacking soundtrack by Jeff van Dyck and the Windjammers 2 soundtrack by Seiichi Hamada, Hiroaki Yoshida, Harumi Fujita and Sylvain Hellio.
Episode 62: Pokémon Games (with Jay Baylis)
Cassette Beasts co-developer Jay Baylis joins us to discuss the long history of Pokémon games, subjecting Matthew to his idea of torture. Hear about the best games in the series across different categories from a genuine expert. This week's music is from the Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl soundtrack by Shota Kageyama, Junichi Masuda, Go Ichinose, Hitomi Sato and Morikazu Aoki, the Pokémon Alpha Sapphire and Omega Ruby soundtrack by Shota Kageyama, Minako Adachi, Hideaki Kuroda and Hitomi Sato, and the Super Smash Bros Ultimate soundtrack by Shota Kageyama, Go Ichinose, Hitomi Sato, Junichi Masuda and Minako Adachi.
Episode 61: 2022 Mailbag
Another overly long mailbag episode is here! 25 of your questions about gaming (yes, and Bath restaurants) answered. This week's music is from the TimeSplitters 2 soundtrack by Graeme Norgate and The Secret of Monkey Island soundtrack by Michael Land and Patrick Mundy.
Episode 60: The Nintendo Wii Draft
Matthew and Samuel compete to pick the 10 best Wii games – the same game cannot be picked more than once. Samuel won this draft, by 67% to 33%. This week's music is from the Wii Sports Resort soundtrack by Ryo Nagamatsu, the Super Mario Galaxy 2 soundtrack by Mahito Yokota, Ryo Nagamatsu and Koji Kondo, and The Last Story soundtrack by Nobuo Uematsu.
Matthew
Boom Blox Bash Party
Super Paper Mario
Super Mario Galaxy 2
Wii Sports Resort
Sin and Punishment 2
Red Steel 2
Hydroventure
Zack & Wiki
Trauma Team
Metroid: Other M
Samuel
Wii Sports
Zelda: Twilight Princess
Super Mario Galaxy
Smash Bros Brawl
Ghost Squad
Zelda: Skyward Sword
Metroid Prime Trilogy
Silent Hill: Shattered Memories
The Last Story
Donkey Kong Country Returns
Episode 59: 22 Bold Gaming Predictions About 2022
Samuel and Matthew each pick 11 predictions for the year ahead in gaming, all based on absolutely no information whatsoever. It's a light episode, and Samuel's audio is a bit crap. Sorry about that. This week's music is from the Command & Conquer: Red Alert 2 soundtrack by Frank Klepacki and the Xenoblade Chronicles soundtrack by Ace+.
Episode 58: The Best Games of 2021
Our GOTY episode is here! Two top 10 lists of the best games released in 2021, with almost no crossover between the selections. Enjoy. This week's music is from the Bowser's Fury soundtrack by Daisuke Matsuoka and James Phillipsen, the Rhythm Doctor soundtrack by fizzd, Winston Lee and foxiand, and The Great Ace Attorney Chronicles soundtrack by Yasumasa Kitagawa and Hiromitsu Maeba.
Samuel
10. Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart
9. Exo One
8. Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy
7. Resident Evil Village
6. Inscryption
5. Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury
4. Halo Infinite
3. Deathloop
2. Age of Empires 4
1. Hitman 3
Honourable mentions
Forza Horizon 5
Riders Republic
Pile of Shame
Wildermyth
Chivalry 2
Chicory: A Colorful Tale
No More Heroes 3
The Great Ace Attorney: Adventures
Death's Door
Overboard
The Forgotten City
Mundaun
2022
Elden Ring
Matthew
10. Lost Judgment
9. Rhythm Doctor
8. OPUS: Echo of Starsong
7. No More Heroes 3
6. Hitman 3
5. Forza Horizon 5
4. The Great Ace Attorney Chronicles
3. Pyschonauts 2
2. The Outer Wilds: Echoes of the Eve
1. Metroid Dread
Honourable mentions
The Forgotten City
It Takes Two
Overboard
The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword HD
Pile of Shame
Returnal
Monster Hunter Rise
Shin Megami Tensei V
2022
Untitled The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild sequel
Episode 57: LOTR Games Revisited As Fellowship Turns 20
As The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring movie turns 20 years old, we revisit every game based on the films from Peter Jackson. From The Two Towers to The Third Age, there are some real gems in among the 7/10 tie-ins. This week's music is from The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers on GBA, based on the music of Howard Shore, and the Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor and Middle-earth: Shadow of War soundtracks by Garry Schyman and Nathan Grigg.
Episode 56: 2021 Gaming Predictions Revisited
Back in episode 7, we made 21 gaming predictions about 2021. How right or wrong were we? In this episode, we put ourselves on trial, discussing everything from N64 games on Switch to PS5 haptics. It's a silly episode, like all of them. Enjoy. This week's music is from the Binary Domain soundtrack by Mitsuharu Fukuyama and the Kingdom Hearts: Melody of Memory soundtrack by Yoko Shimomura.
Episode 55: Games We've Been Playing In 2021 (From Previous Years)
What else we've been playing in 2021, including Luigi's Mansion 3, Resident Evil 3 Remake and more. This week's music is from the 428: Shibuya Scramble soundtrack by Naoki Sato, Hideki Sakamoto and Shingo Yasumoto and the Deus Ex soundtrack by Alexander Brandon, Dan Gardopée and Michiel van den Bos.
Episode 54: The Best Halo Games
In this episode, Samuel ranks the seven mainline Halo games to date, and both Samuel and Matthew weigh in on the wonders of Halo Infinite multiplayer. This week's music is from the Halo: Reach soundtrack by Martin O'Donnell and Michael Salvatori and the Halo 5: Guardians soundtrack by Kazuma Jinnouchi.

7. Halo 4
6. Halo 5
5. Halo 2
4. Halo 3 ODST
3. Halo Reach
2. Halo 3
1. Halo: Combat Evolved
Episode 53: The Xbox vs GameCube Draft
Who can build the best hypothetical mini console, Matthew, representing GameCube, or Samuel, representing the original Xbox? As both consoles have turned 20 years old, in this episode we'll revisit the libraries of each in a competitive format. Wondering who won this one? It was Matthew, with around 60% of the vote. This week's music is from the Super Mario Sunshine soundtrack by Koji Kondo and Shinobu Tanaka, the Metroid Prime soundtrack by Kenji Yamamoto and Kouichi Kyuma, The Simpsons: Hit and Run soundtrack by Marc Baril, Jeff Tymoschuk and Allan Levy, and the Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne soundtrack by Kärtsy Hatakka and Kimmo Kajasto.
//TBD someone sort this out
Samuel's games (Xbox)
Matthew's games (GameCube)
Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic
Beyond Good & Evil
Panzer Dragoon Orta
TimeSplitters 2
Jet Set Radio Future
Soul Calibur 2
Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time
Donkey Kong: Jungle Beat (with the bongos!)
The Simpsons: Hit and Run
Star Wars Rogue Squadron Il: Rogue Leader
Halo: Combat Evolved
Super Monkey Ball
Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory
Hitman 2: Silent Assassin
Halo 2
WarioWare Inc.: Mega Party Games
Burnout 3: Takedown
Mario Kart: Double Dash
Steel Battalion (with the mech controller!) Killer7
Ninja Gaiden Black
The Matrix: Path of Neo
Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay
Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne
GTA Double Pack (GTA 3 and Vice City)
The Elder Scrolls Ill: Morrowind
Star Wars KOTOR 2: The Sith Lords
The Warriors
Hitman: Blood Money
Crimson Skies: High Road to Revenge
Super Mario Sunshine
Paper Mario: The Thousand
Metroid Prime
Eternal Darkness: Sanity's Requiem
Super Smash Bros Melee
Viewtiful Joe
F-Zero GX
The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess
Resident Evil 4
The Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker

Episode 52: The Best Games of 2011 (except Dark Souls)
The latest in our series of flashback episodes focuses on a year that brought us Batman: Arkham City, Skyrim and The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword. Matthew and Samuel each pick their 10 favourite games from 2011, and throw in a whole host of honourable mentions. This episode's music is from The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim soundtrack, the Pullblox soundtrack by Shoh Murakami and the Xenoblade Chronicles soundtrack by Yoko Shimomura.
Samuel
10. Child of Eden
9. The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim
8. Saints' Row: The Third
7. Portal 2
6. Dragon Age 2
5. LA Noire
4. Super Mario 3D Land
3. Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception
2. Batman: Arkham Citv
1. Deus Ex Human Revolution
Honourable mentions
Shadows of the Damned
Dead Space 2
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3
Infamous 2
Resistance 3
The Ico & Shadow of the Colossus Collection
Metal Gear Solid HD Collection
Halo Combat Evolved: Anniversary
Matthew
10. Rayman Origins
9. Pullblox
8. Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception
7. Deus Ex Human Revolution
6. Batman: Arkham City
5. LA Noire
4. The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword
3. The Witcher 2: Assassin's of Kings
2. Ghost Trick: Phantom Detective
1. Xenoblade Chronicles.
Honourable mentions
Shadows of the Damned
Dead Space 2
Mario Kart 7
Bulletstorm
Ghost Recon: Shadow Wars
Alice: Madness Returns.

Dark Souls is mentioned at the end of the episode.
Episode 51: Metal Gear Solid 2 Turns 20 (with Rich Stanton)
Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty released 20 years ago this week. In this episode, PC Gamer's Rich Stanton joins us to discuss the game's themes and legacy as a PS2 classic. This week's music is from the Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty soundtrack by Harry Gregson-Williams, Rika Muranaka and Carla White.
Episode 50: How Games Magazines Get Made
In our episode 50 special, Matthew and Samuel talk through the entire process of making a games magazine from start to finish, including 15 things that can go wrong. Plus: our thoughts on the GTA Trilogy Definitive Edition, early GOTY chatter and much more. This week's music is from the Apex Legends soundtrack by Stephen Barton, the Metroid Dread soundtrack by Kenji Yamamoto and the Returnal soundtrack by The Haxan Cloak.
Episode 49: 15 Horror Games We Love (with Louise Blain)
It's Halloween! Horror expert and presenter Louise Blain joins us to pick out 15 cool spooky games, from Eternal Darkness to Silent Hill 4: The Room. This week's music is from the Silent Hill 4: The Room soundtrack by Akira Yamaoka and the Stories Untold soundtrack by Omar Khan. Here's a link to the PC Gamer piece Samuel mentions in this episode: https://www.pcgamer.com/how-a-spooky-game-about-being-alone-on-a-server-launched-an-accidental-arg/
Louise Blain
Layers of Fear
PT
Silent Hill 4: The Room
Outlast
Friday the 13th
Samuel
The Walking Dead
The Glass Staircase
Condemned: Criminal Origins
Stories Untold
No Players Online
Matthew
Resident Evil (2002)
Eternal Darkness
Fatal Frame: Mask of the Lunar Eclipse
The Evil Within
Phasmaphobia
Episode 48: Grand Theft Auto 3 Turns 20 (with Steve Burns)
Steve Burns, formerly of Videogamer.com, joins us to discuss Grand Theft Auto III as Rockstar North's groundbreaking open world game turns 20 years old. Hear about its impact on games at the time, its best moments and how GTA would evolve in subsequent entries. This week's music is from the Grand Theft Auto III soundtrack by Craig Conner and Stuart Ross.
Episode 47: What Would Batman Do? (with Tamoor Hussain)
GameSpot's Tamoor Hussain kindly joins us to discuss his career from CVG to working in the US, and to help us rank the Batman: Arkham games to mark the tenth anniversary of Arkham City. This week's music is from the Batman: Arkham Knight soundtrack by Nick Arundel and David Buckley, and the Batman: Arkham City and Arkham Asylum soundtracks by Nick Arundel and Ron Fish.
Episode 46: Bad eBay Games Court – Listener Edition
Judge Matthew Castle puts 16 of our listeners on trial for bad secondhand games purchases, and public defence attorney Samuel Roberts has been assigned to defend them. Who will live and who will die? Plus, hear about our favourite arcade games in this week's episode. This week's music is from The Testament of Sherlock Holmes soundtrack by Alexandre Dudko and the Metroid: Other M soundtrack by Kuniaki Haishima.
Episode 45: From GBA Reviews to The New Yorker (with Simon Parkin)
Our guest this week is journalist and author Simon Parkin. Hear how Simon broke the news of Hideo Kojima's departure from Konami, among many other fascinating industry stories, and learn how he turned reviewing GBA games into a career writing for The New Yorker. This week's music is from the Gunstar Heroes soundtrack by Norio Hanzawa, the Final Fantasy VII soundtrack by Nobuo Uematsu and the Segagaga soundtrack by Tsuyoshi Kaneko.
Episode 44: The N64 Mini Draft
To mark the 25th anniversary of the N64's release in North America, Matthew and Samuel each compete to pick the 10 best games on the system for a hypothetical N64 Mini console. After you've heard our selections, you can vote for the winner @BackPagePod on Twitter until the end of September. Note that this episode was recorded before Nintendo confirmed N64 games were coming to the Switch Online service. The winner of this episode was Matthew Castle. This week's music is from the Rogue Squadron soundtrack by Chris Hülsbeck, the Super Smash Bros. soundtrack by Hirokazu Ando and the Mystical Ninja Starring Goemon soundtrack by Shigeru Araki, Yusuke Kato, Saiko Miki and Yasumasa Kitagawa.
Samuel
GoldenEye 007
Mario Tennis
Mario Kart 64
Banjo-Kazooie
The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time
Star Wars: Rogue Squadron
Conker's Bad Fur Day
Sin and Punishment
Perfect Dark
Star Fox 64
Matthew
Doom 64
Super Smash Bros.
F-Zero X
Super Mario 64
The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask
Indiana Jones and the Infernal Machine
Mystical Ninja Starring Goemon
Bangai-O
Space Station Silicon Valley
Paper Mario
Episode 43: Deathloop and Immersive Sims (with Jeremy Peel)
We've finished Deathloop! Enjoy spoiler-free impressions of Arkane's latest game from Samuel, Matthew and our guest, the brilliant freelance writer Jeremy Peel. In hour two, hear about the history of the immersive sim, with chatter about Deus Ex, Thief and more games that defined Deathloop's lineage. This week's music is from the Deathloop soundtrack by Tom Salta and Ross Tregenza, the Deus Ex soundtrack by Alexander Brandon, Michiel van den Bos and Dan Gardopee, and the Deus Ex: Human Revolution soundtrack by Michael McCann. Here's where Warren Spector's definition of the immersive sim comes from: https://www.gamedeveloper.com/design/postmortem-ion-storm-s-i-deus-ex-i- Here's Jeremy's oral history of Deus Ex: https://www.rockpapershotgun.com/deus-ex-at-20-the-oral-history-of-a-pivotal-pc-game
Episode 42: The Best Games of 2010
Two very different top 10 lists from 2010, one of the best years of gaming in modern memory. The usual mix of magazine memories and news from the time. That's it! Enjoy. This week's music is from the Red Dead Redemption soundtrack by Bill Elm & Woody Jackson, the Halo Reach soundtrack by Marty O'Donnell, the Alan Wake soundtrack by Poets of the Fall and Petri Alanko, and the Super Mario Galaxy 2 soundtrack by Mahito Yokota, Ryo Nagamatsu and Koji Kondo.
Samuel
10. Final Fantasy XIll
9. Fable 3
8. Alan Wake
7. Fallout New Vegas
6. Vanquish
5. Bioshock 2
4. Halo Reach
3. Bayonetta
2. Mass Effect 2
1. Red Dead Redemption
Honourable mentions
Heavy Rain
God of War 3
Just Cause 2
Assassin's Creed Brotherhood
Split Second Velocity
Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit
Kingdom Hearts: Birth by sleep
Pokemon HeartGold and SoulSilver
Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker
Mafia 2
Star Wars: The Force Unleashed 2
Matthew
10. Trauma Team
9. Bayonetta
8. Professor Layton and the Lost Future
7. Mass Effect 2
6. Infinite Space
5. Castlevania: Lords of Shadow
4. Red Dead Redemption
3. 9 Hours, 9 Persons, 9 Doors
2. Last Window: The Secret of Cape West
1. Super Mario Galaxy 2
Honourable mentions
Metroid: Other M
Splinter Cell Conviction
Donkey Kong Country Returns
Picross 3D
Battlefield Bad Company 2
Golden Sun Dark Dawn
Sin and Punishment: Star Successor
Mafia 2
Red Steel 2
Episode 41: Bad eBay Games Court – The Retrial
Judge Matthew Castle will decide if defendant Samuel Roberts lives or dies over a series of dodgy games purchases! Enjoy this sequel to our 15th episode from back in March, and hear our thoughts on Deathloop (after 7 hours with a preview build) and No More Heroes 3. This week's music is from Silent Hill: Shattered Memories by Akira Yamaoka, the No More Heroes 3 soundtrack by Nobuaki Kaneko, Jun Fukuda and Kazuhiro "MEEBEE" Abo, and the Phoenix Wright: Trials and Tribulation soundtrack by Noriyuki Iwadare.
Episode 40: The Indie Games Hall of Fame Vol 1 (with Katharine Castle)
Katharine Castle of Rock Paper Shotgun returns to the podcast this week, as we each recommend five indie games we like. That's 15 recommendations in total! Plus: another baffling listener question about Yuji Naka.
Katharine Castle
SteamWorld Heist
Holedown
Mutazione
Heaven's Vault
Soma
Matthew
The Room
Return of the Obra Dinn
The Hex
There Is No Game: Wrong Dimension
Dandy Dungeon
Samuel
You Must Build A Boat
FTL: Advanced Edition
Jazzpunk
Minit
Risk of Rain 2
Episode 39: Games Magazine Rivalries (with Dan Dawkins)
Dan Dawkins, former editor of PSM2 and current Content Director of Games and Film at Future, joins us to discuss his long history in games media. You'll hear some of the best games magazine stories on this podcast yet, including encounters with Hideo Kojima and how PSM2 (and later PSM3) popularised the Let's Play format in a pre-YouTube age. This week's music is from the Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots soundtrack by Harry Gregson-Williams, Nobuko Toda, Shuichi Kobori and Kazuma Jinnouchi, the Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty soundtrack by Harry Gregson-Williams and the Ico soundtrack by Michiru Oshima, Koichi Yamazaki and Mitsukuni Murayama.
Episode 38: The PS2 Mini Draft
What if Sony released a PS2 Mini? And what if it was good? In this week's episode, Matthew and Samuel each pick 10 games to be released with a hypothetical PS2 Mini. Head to the poll on our pinned tweet @BackPagePod to vote on who picked the best games, and we'll announce the winner on a future episode! The winner of this episode was Samuel. This week's music comes from the Gitaroo Man soundtrack by COIL, Tomohiro Harada and YUAN, the Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater soundtrack by Norihiko Hibino and Cynthia Harrell, the Final Fantasy XII soundtrack by Hitoshi Sakimoto, Hayato Matsuo and Masaharu Iwata and the Silent Hill 2 soundtrack by Akira Yamaoka.
Samuel
TimeSplitters 2
Silent Hill 2
Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3
Final Fantasy X
Devil May Cry 3: Special Edition
Jak & Daxter: The Precursor Legacy
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas
Kingdom Hearts
Gitaroo Man
Shadow of the Colossus
Matthew
Red Faction
Forbidden Siren
Burnout 3: Takedown
Final Fantasy XIl
Metal Gear Solid 3: Subsistence
Prince of Persia: Sands of Time
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City
The Warriors
Gregory Horror Show
God of War 2
Episode 37: Games We've Been Playing in 2021
It's a simple podcast about the games we've been playing in 2021 so far – both old and new. From The Last of Us Part 2 to Neo: The World Ends With You and Crimson Skies: High Road to Revenge, we cover plenty of ground in this episode, and answer your questions about open world games and video game theme parks. This week's music is from the Judgment soundtrack by Hidenori Shoji, Yuri Fukuda and Saori Yoshida, The Last of Us Part 2 soundtrack by Gustavo Santaolalla, and the Hades soundtrack by Darren Korb.
Episode 36: The Best Ace Attorney Games
Take a spoiler-free dive into the Phoenix Wright series and its various spin-offs, as Matthew gives his verdict on the long-awaited The Great Ace Attorney Chronicles, and reels off the 10 best entries in this immortal Capcom visual novel series. This week's music: Phoenix Wright ~ Objection! 2013 (Ace Attorney: Dual Destinies), Investigation - The Core (The Great Ace Attorney Chronicles), Godot ~ The Fragrance of Black Coffee (Ace Attorney: Trials and Tribulations) and Athena Cykes ~ Courtroom Révolutionnaire (Ace Attorney: Spirit Of Justice) by Noriyuki Iwadare, Yasumasa Kitagawa, Hiromitsu Maeba. Toshihiko Horiyama and Masami Onodera.

[Matthew says that the games from 5 to 2 are “slightly interchangeable”.]

10. Ace Attorney Investigations: Miles Edgeworth (Best Case: “Turnabout Reminiscence”)
9. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Dual Destinies (Best Case: “Turnabout Reclaimed” from the DLC)
8. Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney (Best Case: “Turnabout Trump”)
7. Ace Attorney Investigations 2 (Best Case: “The Imprisoned Turnabout”)
6. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Justice for All (Best Case: “Farewell, My Turnabout”)
5. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Spirit of Justice (Best Case: “Turnabout Revolution”)
4. The Great Ace Attorney Chronicles (Best Case: “The Adventure of the Runaway Room”)
3. Professor Layton vs. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney (Best Case: “The Golden Court”)
2. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney (Best Case: “Turnabout Goodbyes”)
1. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Trials and Tribulations (Best Case: “Bridge of the Turnabout”)
Episode 35: Steam Deck and Creating the Perfect Handheld
With Valve moving into the handheld market, we reflect on whether there's a place for a Switch-style PC in this episode. Plus! In a sequel of sorts to our Bad eBay Games Court episode, Big Sammy Holdings and Matthew Castle Productions are moving into the hardware market – hear us conceptualise the (fictional) perfect handheld games console. This week's music is from the Heavy Rain soundtrack by the late Normand Corbeil, the Control soundtrack by Petri Alanko and Martin Stig Andersen, and the Space Harrier soundtrack by Hiroshi Kawaguchi and Yu Suzuki.
Episode 34: The Best Zelda Games
Matthew has played The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword HD, which is out now. Does he still think it's worth an Edge 10 a decade later? Find out in this episode, and discover where it ranks in Matthew's list of the top 10 Zelda games to date. Expect lots of deep dissection of Nintendo's series from a genuine expert. This week's music is from The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time soundtrack by Koji Kondo, The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword soundtrack by Hajime Wakai, Shiho Fujii, Mahito Yokota and Takeshi Hama, The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening soundtrack on Nintendo Switch by Ryo Nagamatsu and The Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker soundtrack by Kenta Nagata, Hajime Wakai, Toru Minegishi and Koji Kondo.

Not on the list: The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past

10. The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds
9. The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Ages
8. The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap
7. The Legend of Zelda: Link’s Awakening
6. The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess
5. The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time
4. The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword
3. The Legend of Zelda: Majora’s Mask
2. The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker
1.  The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild
Episode 33: The Best Games of 2009
Two top 10 lists of the best games of 2009, from Uncharted 2 to Batman: Arkham Asylum. First, we'll tell you what was going on in the media in 2009, then we'll delve into a solid chunk of recommendations. Don't miss our episodes on the best games of 2006-2008, too, as we slowly work our way through the past two decades of gaming history. This week's music is from the Uncharted 2 soundtrack by Greg Edmonson, the Spirit Tracks stage soundtrack from Super Smash Bros Ultimate arranged by Michiko Naruke, the Little King's Story soundtrack by Yutaka Minobe and the Let's Tap soundtrack by various artists.

The Petits Filous episode...
Samuel
10. Fight Night Round 4
9. Red Faction: Guerrilla
8. Dragon Age: Origins
7. Halo 3: ODST
6. Grand Theft Auto: Episodes from Liberty City
5. Resident Evil 5
4. Batman: Arkham Asylum
3. Assassin's Creed II
2. Chrono Trigger (Nintendo DS)
1. Uncharted 2: Among Thieves
Honourable mentions
Bionic Commando
Flower
Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War II
Halo Wars
Infamous
The Saboteur
The Beatles: Rock Band
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2
Matthew
10. Let's Tap
9. Assassin's Creed II
8. Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars
7. Professor Layton and Pandora's Box
6. The Legend of Zelda: Spirit Tracks
5. Batman: Arkham Asylum
4. Mario and Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story
3. Uncharted 2: Among Thieves
2. Little King's Story
1. Might and Magic: Clash of Heroes
Honourable mentions
Resident Evil: Darkside Chronicles
Shadow Complex
Flower,
Sun and Rain
Madworld
Final Fantasy: Crystal Chronicles: The Crystal Bearers
Episode 32: Games Previews...From Hell!
How do you write about a game that's not actually finished yet? In this episode, we dig into the art of writing games magazine cover features, covering weird demos and dealing with the hype cycle in general. Hear about our experiences visiting the studios behind Pokémon and Assassin's Creed, and more embarrassing stories about throwing hot chocolate in toilets and going to the bathroom on a New York City freeway. This week's music is from the Deus Ex: Mankind Divided soundtrack by Michael McCann and Sascha Dikiciyan, and the Devil May Cry 5 soundtrack by Casey Edwards, Ali Edwards and Cliff Lloret.
Episode 31: The Best Sonic Games (with Jay Baylis)
Indie developer Jay Baylis (Wargroove, Lenna's Inception) joins us to talk about Sonic's history in time for the Sega icon's 30th anniversary. You'll hear two top 5 lists of the best Sonic games, and a lot of chatter about his highs and lows. Please don't unsubscribe! Find Jay's work on Cassette Beasts @byttenstudio on Twitter. This week's music is from Sonic CD by Naofumi Hataya and Masafumi Ogata, and the Sonic Unleashed soundtrack by Tomoya Ohtani, Fumie Kumatani, Kenichi Tokoi, Hideaki Kobayashi and Takahito Eguchi.
Episode 30: Let's Turn E3 2021 into a Games Magazine
E3 2021 is finally over! Hear our thoughts on this year's conference as we each count down our 10 favourite announcements from the show, and format them into a hypothetical games magazine. This week's music is from the WarioWare, Inc: Mega Microgames! soundtrack by Ryoji Yoshitomi and Kyoko Miyamoto, and the Metroid: Samus Returns soundtrack by Daisuke Matsuoka.
Episode 29: Does E3 Still Matter? (with Keza MacDonald)
The Guardian's Keza MacDonald kindly joins us on this episode to discuss her long career in games media, and whether E3 still matters in 2021. Hear about some of our E3 memories, and learn about the different ways the show has changed over the years. This week's music is from the Demon's Souls soundtrack by Shunsuke Kida, and The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword soundtrack by Hajime Wakai, Shiho Fujii, Mahito Yokota and Takeshi Hama.
Episode 28: Mailbag Vol. 2
This week, we're answering 22 more of your questions. Where would we set a Yakuza game? Should games reviewers always finish the game first? What were our favourite playground rumours about games? We answer all of these and more – plus we discuss the results of last episode's draft. This week's music is from the Final Fantasy X soundtrack by Junya Nakano and the It Takes Two soundtrack by Gustaf Grefberg and Kristofer Eng.
Episode 27: The Game Developer Draft
Microsoft has been on a spending spree in acquiring developers over the past few years, from Obsidian to buying the entirety of Bethesda. In this episode, Matthew and Samuel can each pick 6 game developers to build a new publisher – but it's competitive, and they can't pick any of the same choices. After you listen, head on over to @BackPagePod on Twitter to cast your vote on who won! The winner of this episode was Samuel. This week's music is from the Hades soundtrack by Darren Korb, and the Toy Story on Genesis soundtrack by Andy Blythe and Martin Joustra, based on the original song by Randy Newman.
Episode 26: The Best Detective Games (with Andy Kelly)
Andy Kelly from PC Gamer joins us to talk through what makes a great detective game, whether it's a compelling mystery, a certain type of setting or something else. Get a deep dive into the genre, then a heap of recommendations as Andy and Matthew each count down their 5 favourite detective games. This week's music is from the LA Noire soundtrack by Andrew Hale, the Famicom Detective Club: The Missing Heir soundtrack by Kenji Yamamoto, the Return of the Obra Dinn soundtrack by Lucas Pope and the Phoenix Wright: Trials and Tribulations soundtrack by Noriyuki Iwadare.
Episode 25: The Mass Effect Trilogy and the Best Companions
With Mass Effect: Legendary Edition now available, we're revisiting the original Mass Effect trilogy in this episode, a defining HD-era series of games. What impact did it have on the RPG genre, for better or worse? What happened to BioWare in the years afterwards? And what future does the series have, if any? This week's music is from the Mass Effect 2 soundtrack by Jack Wall and the Mass Effect 3 soundtrack by Clint Mansell and Sam Hulick.
Episode 24: Resident Evil Village and the best Resi games
We've both finished Resident Evil Village, and in this spoiler-free episode we'll talk you through our thoughts on the eighth entry in Capcom's brilliant survival horror series. In the second half, Matthew and Samuel will count down their 5 best Resident Evil games from across the series. This episode's music is from the Resident Evil 4 soundtrack by Misao Senbongi and the Resident Evil 5 soundtrack by Kota Suzuki.
Episode 23: The Best Games of 2008
From Dead Space to Grand Theft Auto 4, 2008 was a phenomenal year in gaming. In this episode, hear Samuel and Matthew count down their respective top 10 best games of 2008 lists, and flash back to the big events of this year in the HD generation console wars. This week's music is from the Fable 2 soundtrack by Russell Shaw, the No More Heroes soundtrack by the Genki Rockets, and the GTA 4 soundtrack by Michael Hunter.
Samuel
10. The World Ends with You
9. LittleBigPlanet
8. Crisis Core: Final Fantasy VIl
7. Civilisation Revolution
6. Dead Space
5. Fable II
4. No More Heroes
3. Mirror's Edge
2. Fallout 3
1. Grand Theft Auto IV
Honourable mentions
Star Wars: The Force Unleashed
Resistance 2
Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots
Prince of Persia
Pure
MotorStorm: Pacific Rift
Wipeout HD
Devil May Cry 4
Matthew
10. Fatal Frame 4: Mask of the Lunar Eclipse
9. The World Ends with You
8. Super Smash Bros. Brawl
7. No More Heroes
6. Fallout 3
5. Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved 2
4. Professor Layton and the Curious Village
3. Tomb Raider Underworld
2. GTA IV
1. Fable 2
Honourable mentions
Advance Wars: Dark Conflict
Time Hollow
God of War: Chains of Olympus
Gears of War 2
The Witcher: Enhanced Edition
Episode 22: Game Review Scores We Got Right
In this sequel episode to 'Games Review Scores We Got Wrong', hear more about our process of assigning scores to classic games as we pick out the times we got it right. It's two men, getting defensive about old review scores. What makes a better podcast than that? This week's music is from the Resident Evil 6 soundtrack by Akihiko Narita and the Metal Gear Rising Revengeance soundtrack by Jamie Christopherson and Jason Miller.
Episode 21: The Best Yakuza Games (with Phil Savage)
PC Gamer's Phil Savage joins us for a Yakuza-themed special episode, which covers pretty much the entire history of Sega's series as it finds new fans on Xbox Game Pass. Hear about the 5 best games in the Yakuza series, and learn about the best starting point if you're a new fan. This week's music is from the Yakuza 0 and Yakuza 6 soundtracks by Hidenori Shoji.
Yakuza order
(We should also start with the reasons why a couple of them didn't make the Top 5, as an excuse to air my grudges about Kiwami 1 and Yakuza 4)
5. Judgment
4. Kiwami 2
3. Yakuza: Like a Dragon
2. Yakuza 0
1. Yakuza 5 (I am willing to be overruled on this, as it's Spicy, but I think it's appropriate for this series to celebrate the one that is the most extra.)
Episode 20: Games Magazine Covers...From Heaven!
This week, we discuss 10 of our best games magazine covers, and explore the stories of how they each got made. Hear about how issues of PC Gamer, Official Xbox Magazine and Official Nintendo Magazine came together. See the covers discussed in this episode for yourself here: https://www.pinterest.co.uk/backpagegames/back-page-covers-from-heaven/ This week's music is from the Nights: Journey of Dreams soundtrack by Tomoko Sasaki and Naofumi Hataya, and the Metal Gear Solid 5: The Phantom Pain soundtrack by Akihiro Honda, Ludvig Forsell and Stefanie Joosten.
Episode 19: PS3 and PS Vita Games Worth Saving From Oblivion
With the PS3 and PS Vita stores both closing this summer, here are 10 games worth grabbing before the digital storefronts vanish forever. We also discuss the disappointing form that led to Sony's decision to do this, and ponder what console manufacturers actually owe us when it comes to preserving their old games. This week's music is from the Metal Gear Solid soundtrack by Takanari Ishiyama, Gigi Meroni, Kazuki Muraoka, Lee Jeon Myung and Hiroyuki Togo, and the God Hand soundtrack by Masafumi Takada and Jun Fukuda.

The Last Guy
Persona / 2 / P3P
God Hand
Metal Gear Solid & Special Missions (+ MGS 2 & 3)
Dissidia Final Fantasy & Dissidia Zero 12 Duodecim
Silent Hill
Dino Crisis 1 & 2 & Resident Evil 2
Parasite Eve
A Space Shooter for Two Bucks
Velocity games
Honourable Mentions
Calling All Cars!
Tokyo Jungle
Vagrant Story
MotorStorm: RC
Lingering Shadows
LocoRoco Cocoreccho
Infamous: Festival of Blood
Resident Evil Chronicles HD collection
Savage Moon
Muramasa Rebirth
Shin Megami Tensei games
Echochrome
Chrono Cross
Xenogears
Episode 18: Mailbag
You sent in 31 questions about gaming, ranging from demo discs to how games are reviewed, and we answered them! This week, we pause for breath, and just enjoy a Q&A with our listeners. Regular service resumes next week. It's a very straightforward episode, but it covers a wide range of subjects, even if it's about 30 minutes longer than it should be. This week's music is from the Deus Ex soundtrack by Alexander Brandon, Dan Gardopée and Michiel van den Bos.
Episode 17: The Best Nintendo 3DS Games (with Joe Skrebels)
The Nintendo 3DS turns 10 years old this month in the US and Europe, and in this episode, we're counting down the system's best games. We're joined by a special guest (and former employee of Matthew's) to supercharge our Nintendo expertise: IGN's Joe Skrebels! Hear about the history of this system, and learn about the many highlights of its library. This week's music is from the Fire Emblem: Awakening soundtrack by Hiroki Morishita and Rei Kondoh; the Super Mario 3D Land soundtrack by Asuka Hayazaki, Takeshi Hama and Mahito Yokota; the Kid Icarus: Uprising soundtrack by Motoi Sakuraba, Yuzo Koshiro, Masafumi Takada, Noriyuki Iwadare, Takahiro Nishi and Yasunori Mitsuda; and the Professor Layton vs. Phoenix Wright soundtrack by Tomohito Nishiura and Yasumasa Kitagawa.

1. Super Mario 3D Land
2. Luigi’s Mansion 2
3. Monster Hunter 4 Ultimate
4. Mario Kart 7
5. Kid Icarus: Uprising
6. Animal Crossing: New Leaf
7. Fire Emblem Awakening
8. The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds
9. Professor Layton vs. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney
10. Castlevania: Lords of Shadow – Mirror of Fate
Honourable mentions
Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Shadow Wars
Fluidity: Spin Cycle
Project X-Zone
Tomodachi Life
Guild01 & 02: Crimson Shroud
Liberation Maiden
Attack of the Friday Monsters! A Tokyo Tale
Starfox 64
The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time
The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask
SteamWorld Dig i
SteamWorld Heist
Streetpass
Shovel Knight & Mansion
Code Name S.T.E.A.M.
Theatrhythm Final Fantasy Curtain Call
Kingdom Hearts 3D: Dream Drop Distance
Crash City Mayhem
Ace Attorney: Spirit of Justice
Episode 16: Game Developer Interviews...From Hell!
This week's episode is all about interviewing the people who make games. Are we good at it? What makes a great interview? From Phil Spencer to Yuji Horii, too, you'll hear about 10 of the most notable exchanges we've had while working in the games media over the years. This week's music is from the Super Smash Bros Brawl soundtrack by Takahiro Nishi, Shogo Sakai, Masaaki Iwasaki, Yutaka Iraha, Keigo Ozaki and Kentaro Ishizaka, and The Secret of Monkey Island soundtrack by Michael Land and Patrick Mundy.
Episode 15: Bad eBay Games Court
Samuel Roberts stands accused of crimes against good taste – will the honorable judge Matthew Castle find him innocent or guilty, based on 18 dodgy eBay games purchases made over the past 12 months? We also talk about the idea of collecting games generally in this episode, and reveal how big our Steam libraries are. This week's music is from the Grand Theft Auto: Vice City soundtrack by Lex Horton and the Phoenix Wright trilogy soundtrack by Masakazu Sugimori and Akemi Kimura.
Episode 14: The Best Games of 2007
From Uncharted: Drake's Fortune to Crackdown, which were the best games of 2007? Matthew and Samuel share their top 10 lists, and delve into their memories of covering the early days of HD console gaming. This week's music is from the God Hand soundtrack by Masafumi Takada and Jun Fukuda, the Halo 3 soundtrack by Marty O'Donnell and the Hotel Dusk: Room 415 soundtrack by Satoshi Okubo.
Matthew
10. Ghost Squad
9. Tomb Raider Anniversary
8. Zack and Wiki: The Quest for Barbaros' Treasure
7. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
6. Picross DS
5. The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass
4. Hotel Dusk: Room 215
3. BioShock
2. Phoenix Wright: Trials and Tribulations
1. Super Mario Galaxy
Samuel
10. Final Fantasy XII
9. Crackdown
8. The Orange Box
7. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
6. Mass Effect
5. Uncharted: Drake's Fortune
4. BioShock
3. Super Mario Galaxy
2. God Hand
1. Halo 3

Episode 13: The big Nintendo Switch games of 2021
The long-awaited Nintendo Direct hit this week, and we've picked out 12 highlights for discussion, from No More Heroes 3 to Skyward Sword HD. It's definitely not just an excuse to hear some more of Matthew's great Nintendo thoughts and anecdotes, but hey, it's a nice bonus. This week's music is from The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword by Hajime Wakai, Shiho Fujii, Mahito Yokota and Takeshi Hama.
Episode 12: Super Mario 3D World – the best 3D Mario game? (with Katharine Castle)
Mario's greatest Wii U outing has landed on the Nintendo Switch, and this week, we discuss its place in the 3D Mario pantheon. Is it better than Galaxy? Definitely not. Odyssey? Nope. But it is still pretty great. We also talk about the challenges of writing about Mario with our first ever guest, Katharine Castle of Rock Paper Shotgun! This week's music is from the Super Mario 3D World soundtrack by Mahito Yokota, Toru Minegishi, Koji Kondo and Yasuaki Iwata.
Episode 11: Best Games of the Console Generation - Part 2
Our two top 30 games of the generation lists conclude this week, as we each read out our personal 15 best games on PS4, Xbox One and Wii U. This week's music is from the Mario Kart 8 soundtrack by Shiho Fujii, Atsuko Asahi, Shinji Hosoe, Ryo Nagamatsu and Yasuaki Iwata, and The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild soundtrack by Manaka Kataoka, Yasuaki Iwata and Hajime Wakai.
Samuel
15. Doom Eternal
14. Super Mario 3D World
13. P.T.
12. Resident Evil 2 (2019)
11. Persona 5
10. Destiny 2
9. Marvel’s Spider-Man
8. Nier: Automata
7. Alien: Isolation
6. Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain
5. Uncharted 4: A Thief's End
4. Hitman 2 (2018)
3. Dishonored 2
2. The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild
1. Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice
Matthew
15. Mario Kart 8
14. Rayman Legends
13. Persona 5 Royal
12. Uncharted 4: A Thief's End
11. Red Dead Redemption 2
10. Hitman 2
9. Yakuza 0
8. Ori and the Blind Forest
7. Forza Horizon 4
6. God of War
5. Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain
4. Dishonored 2
3. The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
2.  Outer Wilds
1. The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild
Episode 10: Best Games of the Console Generation - Part 1
Two top 30 lists of the best games on PS4, Xbox One and Wii U from the past 7 or 8 years – this episode covers games 30-16 on both our lists. Part 2 is coming next Friday. Enjoy. This week's music is from the Prey soundtrack by Mick Gordon, the Danganronpa V3 soundtrack by Masafumi Takada and the Final Fantasy XV soundtrack by Yoko Shimomura.
Matthew
30. Tales from the Borderlands
29. Final Fantasy XV
28. What Remains of Edith Finch
27. Kalimba
26. Hand of Fate 2
25. Batman: Arkham Knight
24. Pikmin 3
23. Dragon Age: Inquisition
22. The Evil Within
21. The Witness
20. Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony
19. Metro Exodus
18. Inside
17. The Wonderful 101
16. Zero Escape: The Nonary Games
Samuel
30. Bloodborne
29. Hotline Miami 2: Wrong Number
28. Batman: Arkham Knight
27. Rocket League
26. Fallout 4
25. Prey
24. Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order
23. Titanfall 2
22. Assassin’s Creed Origins
21. Inside
20. Deus Ex: Mankind Divided
19. The Last Guardian
18. Apex Legends
17. Final Fantasy XV
16. What Remains of Edith Finch
Episode 9: Hitman 3 and the 10 best Hitman levels
We've both played a lot of Hitman 3, and in this episode, we celebrate IO Interactive's World of Assassination trilogy and explore why it's one of modern gaming's greatest achievements. If you're a fan of Agent 47's many murders of nasty billionaires, this episode is for you. This week's music is from the Hitman 2 soundtrack by Niels Bye Nielsen.
Episode 8: Games Magazine Covers...From Hell!
Matthew and Samuel discuss the art of making covers for games magazines. See the covers discussed in the episode for yourself using this link: The  If you're having trouble using the link on your podcasting app of choice, you'll also find them on Twitter @BackPagePod. This week's music is from the Pillars of Eternity soundtrack by Justin E Bell, the Mass Effect Andromeda soundtrack by John Paesano and the Professor Layton vs Phoenix Wright soundtrack by Tomohito Nishiura and Yasumasa Kitagawa.
Episode 7: 21 wild gaming predictions about 2021
In this 2021 preview episode, we sum up what's new with the next-gen consoles (and PC! And Nintendo!) in the coming 12 months. We also serve up 21 gaming predictions for the next year – from Cyberpunk 2077 DLC to Master Chief appearing in Smash Bros, it's all based on very few facts, and we hope you enjoy it. This week's music is from the Baldur's Gate 3 soundtrack by Borislav Slavov.
Episode 6: The Best Games of 2020
Wow, 2020 was the worst! Luckily, the games were pretty good, and in this episode, we each count down our personal top 10s of the year. From Doom Eternal to Final Fantasy 7 Remake, start off 2021 by capping off the last 12 months of fantastic games. This week's music is from the Final Fantasy 7 soundtrack by Nobuo Uematsu and the themes of Destiny 2's Prophecy dungeon by Michael Sechrist, Skye Lewin, Michael Salvatori and Josh Mosser.
Samuel
10. Carrion
9. Risk of Rain 2
8. Sea of Thieves
7. Star Wars: Squadrons
6. Mafia: Definitive Edition
5. Final Fantasy 7: Remake
4. Command and Conquer: Remastered
3. Doom Eternal
2. Apex Legends
1. Destiny 2
Most Disappointing Game
Marvel's Avengers
Pile of Shame Games
Ghost of Tsushima
The Last of Us Part II
13 Sentinels: Aegis Rim
Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales
2021 best game prediction
Deathloop
Matthew
10. Grindstone
9. Unto the End
8. Persona 5 Royal
7. Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition
6. Gears Tactics
5. Yakuza: Like a Dragon
4. Doom Eternal
3. Death Stranding
2. Half-Life: Alyx
1. Desperados 3
Most disappointing game
Resident Evil 3
Pile of Shame games
Animal Crossing: New Horizons
Final Fantasy VII Remake
Empire of Sin
2021 best game prediction
Hitman 3 or theoretically BOTW2
Episode 5: Cyberpunk 2077 and How To Review Big Games
The story of CD Projekt Red's Cyberpunk 2077 is now much bigger than the game itself. Still, in this episode, Matthew discusses his 70 hours playing the glitchy but nonetheless fascinating game, while Samuel throws questions at him about the game's best quests and why it's not a very good immersive sim. In the second half, we discuss the ways in which writing about big games has changed over the years. Note that this episode was recorded before Sony pulled Cyberpunk 2077 from sale on the PlayStation Store - the conversation around this game has changed quickly... This week's music is from the game's soundtrack by Marcin Przybyłowicz, PT Adamczyk and Paul Leonard-Morgan, as well as the Super Mario Galaxy soundtrack by Koji Kondo and Mahito Yokota.
Episode 4: The Best Games of 2006
From Twilight Princess to Gears of War, travel back to the dawn of HD gaming in our 2006-themed retrospective podcast. Matthew and Samuel both count down their top 10 games from that year, and recall the biggest news headlines, from Peter Moore's ludicrous GTA 4 tattoo to the PS3's pricing disaster. Get ready for a comfy 2.5 hours of nostalgia (hopefully not in an unbearable way). This week's music comes from the Bully soundtrack by Shawn Lee, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess soundtrack by Toru Minegishi, Asuka Ohta and Koji Kondo, and the Rhythm Tengoku soundtrack by Tsunku and Masami Yone.
Samuel
10. Gears of War
9. Kingdom Hearts 2
8. Loco Roco
7. Tetris DS
6. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney
5. Devil May Cry 3: Special Edition
4. Animal Crossing: Wild World
3. Bully
2. Shadow of the Colossus
1. Metal Gear Solid 3: Subsistence
Matthew
10. Guitar Hero 2
9. Tomb Raider” Legend
8. Psychonauts
7. Wii Sports
6. Trauma Centre: Second Opinion
5. Bully
4. Hitman: Blood Money
3. Rhythm Tengoku
2. The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess
1. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney

0:03:12 - what Matthew was doing in 2006. End of uni, job in ngamer. Lots of eating ice cream and small ville in-between the two.
0:07:31 - Matthew playing cod 2 on xbox 360 instead of revising.
0:12:07 - what Samuel was doing in 2006. Just finished A levels. Didn't do well,  dynasty warriors is to blame. Also watched smallville.
0:15:40 - 7 headlines in 2006. Big e3; ps4 and wii launched, gta4 exclusive bits to xbox.
0:19:12 second announcement, Huge ps3 price announced. Lads talk about the consoles they had at the time. Matthew got a ps3 when the slim version came out. Samuel got a 360 early on.
0:23:11 - Nintendo at E3 - Miyamoto on stage being a conductor.
0:25:27 - Ds lite came out this year. Matthew bought one as soon as he got his job at Ngamer.
0:27:17 - big year for final fantasy. 13 revealed 2006, comes out 2009/2010. Versus 13 was revealed in 2006, becoming final fantasy XV a decade later. Type 0 on psp revealed, comes out 2010.
0:29:20 - capcom close clover studio. Made god hand and okami.
0:40:08 - Matthew not being much of a rock fan, ended up liking a lot of the music in guitar hero 2. Bought a best of cheap trick after playing.
0:50:03 - Matthew asked for tomb raider 1 on pc for his birthday, but couldn't finish the first level due to controls.
1:02:26 - first mention of Matthews psp being stolen.
1:08:31 - the generic mii character in wii sport boxing looks like Justin lee-Collins, lots of mentions of that in ngamer at the time.
1:21:17 - "3D mario or bust"
1:25:50 - 3rd trauma centre game promotional tshirt, which Matthew likes so much the print came off.
1:28:58 - what's Dante's business?
1:39:39 - euro gamers top 50 games of 2006, ladish tone in print/site.
1:42:37 - Samuel played animal crossing in real time all day.
2:02:53 - Matthew played Twilight Princess whilst house sitting, whilst looking after rats. House full of mysteries, how was there rat poop in the middle of the room?
2:08:42 - "Do you think they'll start putting the colossus in fortnite?"
2:19:47 - Samuel didn't play games for about a year and a half, blames ffx-2.
Episode 3: James Bond games, from GoldenEye to IO Interactive
IO Interactive: nobody does it better? James Bond is the theme of this week's episode, as we discuss the Hitman developer's recently announced 007 game, and what it might look like. We also delve into the history of Bond on consoles and PC. Predictably, GoldenEye 007 comes up, but so too do the deeply average PS2-era likes of 007 Nightfire and Everything or Nothing. Plus! Jokes about George Lazenby. This week's music is from the GoldenEye 007 soundtrack by Graeme Norgate, Grant Kirkhope and Robin Beanland, as well as the No One Lives Forever soundtrack by Guy Whitman.

0:03:13 Samuel's opinion on bond films - couple of connery ones, casino royale, sky fall, goldeneye, the living daylights. On her majesty's secret service is 50/50.
0:05:06 - Matthew extended essay about bond adaptations (and listening to theme tune every hour)
0:09:51 - Matthew's friend Mark, has a n64 goldeneye party, and wishes all parties to be like that.
Episode 2: Game Review Scores We Got Wrong
What goes into awarding a game a 7/10 review score? And what happens when you get it wrong? This week, we discuss 10 or so games where the review scores we decided on many years ago didn't stand the test of time. From Epic Mickey to Metal Gear Solid 4, it's a spicy podcast. This week's music is from the MGS4 soundtrack by Nobuka Toda. Our logo is by John Strike.

0:03:20 - Matthew first game review, red steel
0:14:04 - hotel dusk novel review/Samuel's diary of niko bellic
0:22:46 - Samuel's first big review, the darkness ps3(play) Scored 91%, thinks it should be 15% lower
0:26:21 - Matthews zelda skyward sword review (edge), scored 10
0:32:43 - Samuel's MGS4 review, 92% (play)
0:38:12 - Matthews mario kart wii 88% (ngamer)
0:43:56 - Samuels far cry 2 review, 7/10 (x360 mag), thinks it should be higher
0:47:08 - Matthew's ace attorney trials and tribulations 81% /ace attorney investigations miles edgeworth reviews 79%
(One matthew loves, one he hates, but there is only 2% difference)
0:51:08 - Samuel's Batman Arkham asylum review (x360 mag) 7/10, then got convinced to make it 8/10.
0:55:05 - nier -
matthew 65% (xbox 360 version)"quite easily the best not very good game we've played in a while"
Samuel 54% (ps3 version)
1:00:07 - matthews bit trip runner review 1/5
1:03:11 - Samuel's assassin creed review 58% (play mag) thinks score is too high.
1:06:56 - Matthews resident evil revelations review 90% "a bit of a 3ds drought made me too thirsty"
1:10:11 - Samuel's lego batman review 2/5 (360 mag)
1:11:58 - Matthews epic mickey review 86%

Lowest scored games
Matthew - 1:18:07 - doki doki Mago shinpan (spelling? I'm not googling that!) score: No
Samuel - 1:19:14 - lord of the rings conquest. Score: 1/5 (360 mag)
Episode 1: PS5 vs Xbox Series X
Two next-generation consoles just launched: the PS5 and the Xbox Series X, both of which have sold out worldwide. We've played games on each, and this week we talk about their launch line-up, as well as the history of each company's consoles. Plus: which console had the best launch line-up of games ever? The answer may or may not surprise you. This week's music comes from the Assassin's Creed Valhalla soundtrack by Einar Selvik.

00:00:37 - Matthews "pile of jumpers" sound studio
00:09:09 " oh, sounds terribly corrupt now doesn't it" Matthew doesn't need to buy an xbox series x
00:43:10 - wii house
00:50:12 - Edge with cardboard over the windows
00:51:09 - "yogurvision"
01:31:00 - Matthew wants that Rennie sponsorship
